 1 : COP25_UK308
The world’s leaders and diplomats are gathering at a~United Nations climate summit~in Madrid today amid growing concerns over the global warming crisis.~~ As the Spanish capital prepares to welcome some 29,000 delegates at the two-week conference of the parties, or COP25 , UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres warned that “the point of no return is no longer over the horizon”. That message is echoed in an article in HYPERLINK Nature journal written by a group of leading scientists, who warn that the Earth’s climate is closer to reaching crucial “tipping points” than was previously thought. Here are some of those thresholds. Ice collapse Evidence shows that the HYPERLINK Antarctic ice sheets Collapsing ice sheets leads to higher sea levels, one of the most dangerous consequences of climate change. HYPERLINK Sea level rises are already having “devastating effects”, forcing mass migration of people to higher ground and coinciding with dangerous hurricanes and typhoons, says ~ HYPERLINK National Geographic Key services such as internet access - which rely on infrastructure in the path of rising seas - may also be hit as a result. Biosphere boundaries Climate change threatens to trigger biosphere tipping points, some of the consequences of which are already being felt. Ocean heatwaves have caused coral bleaching and the loss of half of the shallow-water corals on HYPERLINK Australia’s Great Barrier Reef Deforestation and climate change also risks destabilising rainforests such as the HYPERLINK Amazon . The scientists say that
“estimates of where an Amazon tipping point could lie range from 40% deforestation to just 20% forest-cover loss”. About 17% has already been lost since 1970. Global cascade The biggest risk is a “global cascade” of tipping points “that led to a new, less habitable, ‘hothouse’ climate state”, says report author Tim Lenton, director of the Global Systems Institute at the University of Exeter. Evidence suggests that exceeding one tipping point can increase the
risk of exceeding others, with such links found for 45% of possible interactions. Arctic sea-ice loss is amplifying warming in the area, which contributes to an influx of fresh water in the North Atlantic. This in turn contributes to a slowdown of the Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation (AMOC), a large system of ocean currents that distribute heat and energy around the world and determine the climate we feel all around the globe. A further slowdown of the AMOC could destabilise the West African monsoon, triggering drought in Africa’s Sahel region. The~phenomenon could also dry the Amazon, disrupt the East Asian monsoon, and cause a heat build-up in the Southern Ocean, which could further accelerate Antarctic ice loss. ——————————- For a round-up of HYPERLINK utm_source=theweek.co.uk&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=brandsite&utm_content=in- article-link-politics the most important stories utm_source=theweek.co.uk&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=brandsite&utm_content=in-article-link- politics The Week magazine HYPERLINK utm_source=theweek.co.uk&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=brandsite&utm_content=in-article-link- politics Start your trial subscription today Is it too late? The scientists behind the Nature article says that the evidence suggests the world is currently in a state of “planetary emergency”. “We might already have lost control of whether tipping happens,” they write. “A saving grace is that the rate at which damage accumulates from tipping - and hence the risk posed - could still be under our control to some extent.” “To be honest, I think we know enough climate science to act, yet we are not acting decisively, so we need to put resources into action,” report author Lenton told HYPERLINK Vice . Speaking ahead of COP25 , the UN’s Guterres said that the coming 12 months are
“crucial”, adding: “It is essential that we secure more ambitious national commitments.”~
  2

 2 : COP26_UK299
THE COP26 climate summit is due to end today, with negotiators scrambling to salvage a significant deal on reducing global carbon emissions. Cop26 president Alok Sharma yesterday warned “time is running out” in Glasgow for the 180 countries at the summit to agree to a deal. While the summit will officially end today, Boris Johnson indicated negotiations could stretch into the weekend as happened in previous years. China and the US, the globe’s two largest CO2 emitters, on Wednesday agreed to team up to phase out fossil fuels in an unexpected deal. Pundits have said the deal provides hope that China could come to the table and agree to a deal to strengthen commitments made in the 2015 Paris Climate Accord. Sharma said proposals over reducing fossil fuel subsidies and accelerating reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are still crucial stumbling blocks. “Whilst we have made progress we are not there yet on the most critical issues. There is still a lot more work to be done - time is running out,” he said. “As I speak my ministerial facilitators and negotiators are rolling up their sleeves and working hard to find solutions to some of the most intractable issues.” The draft text of the Cop26 deal notes “with serious concern” that existing global agreements are insufficient to keep global warming to 1.5 degrees. The draft, which sets out what negotiators hope will be the outcome of Cop26 , asks countries to “revisit and strengthen the 2030 targets in their nationally determined contributions, as necessary to align with the Paris Agreement temperature goal by the end of 2022”. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  3

 3 : COP22_UK18
The meeting will gather representatives from Ministries of environment, agriculture and water, the Green Climate
Fund (GCF) and Global Environment Facility (GEF) national focal points as well as FAO senior staffs ROME, Italy – High ranking officials from the Maghreb region are convening in Rabat for a three days’ workshop, jointly
organized by the Government of Morocco, Union of Maghreb Countries (UMA), with the support of the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO). This first of a series of FAO sponsored sub regional dialogues on Agriculture related Intended National Determined Contributions (INDC‘s) and Climate Finance will discuss the priorities of the UMA countries in sustainable agriculture development and climate change, the potential of climate finance in helping countries deliver on their pledges and the collaboration with FAO. The meeting will gather representatives from Ministries of environment, agriculture and water, the Green Climate Fund (GCF) and Global Environment Facility (GEF) national focal points as well as FAO senior staffs. The participants will also exchange on the agriculture related regional and global initiatives brought to the COP22 , including Africa Adaptation Initiative and Water Scarcity Initiative. “Agriculture will be greatly affected by climate change but sustainable agriculture development can also be part of the solutions to Climate Change said the FAO Assistant Director-General and Regional Representative for the Near East and North Africa, Abdessalam Ould Ahmed M. S”This high level workshop offers the opportunity for an in-depth discussion of the ways and means to implement the country pledges as they relate to agriculture and to explore possible collaboration with FAO in their implementation and the role of climate finance” , he added. Most countries in the Near East and North Africa region have included Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries at the heart of their Intended Nationally Determined Contribution. Distributed by APO on behalf of Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  4

 4 : COP25_UK2
MADRID, Spain – What: Africa Day When: 10 December 2019 Where: Room 3, Hall 4 at IFEMA Conference Centre, Madrid Time: 18:30 to 20:00 Who: Jointly organized by the African Union Commission, African Development Bank (AfDB.org), and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa Officials, experts, activists and journalists are invited to take part and cover the Africa Day at the COP25 conference in Madrid on 10 December 2019, in room 3 at the IFEMA Conference Centre. During this event, leaders will provide an update of the global commitments made at the world’s leading climate change meeting. Africa Day marks Africa’s presence and participation at the various United Nations Climate Change Conference (UNFCCC) sessions since COP 17. Africa Day provides a platform for the continent’s decision makers and other stakeholders to engage in a dialogue that informs the region’s course of action around climate change. The discussions will touch on effective means of implementation (finance, capacity building, and technology development and transfer) of the Paris Agreement. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). Media Contacts: African Union Esther Azaa Tankou Head of Information Division Directorate of Information and Communication African Union Commission Email: HYPERLINK mailto:YambouE@africa-union.org YambouE@africa-union.org African Development Bank Gershwin Wanneburg Communication and External Relations Department African Development Bank Email: HYPERLINK mailto:g.wanneburg@afdb.org g.wanneburg@afdb.org Pan-African Parliament Ntsiuoa Sekete Senior Communications and Media Officer Pan-African Parliament Email: HYPERLINK mailto:ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  5

 5 : COP24_UK236
The EU’s energy chief is pushing for member states to formally adopt a new set of carbon reduction targets ahead of UN climate talks this year. The EU already has some of the most ambitious carbon emission reduction targets in the world but Miguel Arias Ca’f1ete, EU energy commissioner, wants the bloc to go further. “We have to press the throttle,” Mr Ca’f1ete said. After the US withdrew from the Paris climate talks agreement this year, the EU has emerged as one of the leading advocates for reducing emission targets. Under the new target, proposed by Mr Ca’f1ete, the EU would increase its carbon emissions reduction target to 45 per cent by 2030, up from the current target of 40 per cent, relative to 1990 levels. Raising the EU’s official target requires the approval of all member states through the council of ministers. Mr Ca’f1ete’s letter to the council of ministers will include modelling that shows the EU will “de facto” reduce emissions 45 per cent by 2030 because of the other energy targets that have been recently adopted. With new legislation, at least half of the EU’s electricity will come from renewable sources by 2030, Mr Ca’f1ete said. Reaching the new energy and climate change targets would require a mixture of public and private investment of (EURO)379bn a year between 2021 and 2030, as well as a 50 per cent increase in the amount of new renewables installed each year, Mr Ca’f1ete said. Hitting the new renewable target was “clearly a challenge”, he added. Mr Ca’f1ete said UN climate talks, which are due take place in December in Katowice, Poland, would be “difficult”. Countries that signed up to the 2015 Paris climate deal will try to agree on a common
“rule book” that will govern the pact. However, the preparatory talks for the conference, known as COP24 , have made little progress due to disagreement over whether there should be a single set of rules, or different rules for developed and for developing countries. The Paris agreement suffered a heavy blow after Donald Trump said last year that the US would pull out of the agreement. The US president denounced the agreement for imposing
“draconian” burdens on his country. If EU ministers formally adopt the new emissions target ahead of the UN climate talks, it would become the first big economy to raise its climate targets under the UN framework this year. However, some argue the EU should be much more ambitious. Energy ministers from 14 member states - including France, Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands - wrote to the commission in June requesting it raise its targets, some to as much as a 55 per cent reduction by 2030. Climate Action Network Europe estimated that the increase to 45 per cent will “fall well short of what is needed to implement the Paris Agreement”. Editorial Comment page 10
  6

 6 : COP26_UK291
Scientists, politicians and activists have descended on Glasgow for the HYPERLINK Cop26 climate summit, the most important UN meeting of its kind in years. The meeting comes after a HYPERLINK landmark climate report The first week of the summit saw the announcement of new net zero targets from countries such as India and Nigeria and multi-country deals on deforestation, coal and methane. As the talks enter their second week, country ministers will arrive to help efforts to thrash out a final agreement for Glasgow. Shadow business secretary and former Labour Party leader HYPERLINK Ed Miliband has been in Glasgow this week following progress at the summit. In 2009, Mr Miliband was the UK’s climate minister at the Cop15 climate summit in Copenhagen. On Monday 8 November at 4pm GMT, he will be on hand to answer your questions on the Cop26 climate summit and what progress has been made towards reining in rapidly rising emissions. All you have to do is register to submit your question in the comments below. If you’re not already a member, click “sign up” in the comments box to leave your question. Don’t worry if you can’t see your question - they will be hidden until Ed and I join the conversation to answer them. We look forward to speaking with you on Monday. Read More HYPERLINK Cop26 Glasgow news live: Biden says forests ‘indispensable’ HYPERLINK What are the Covid rules at HYPERLINK Cop26 ? HYPERLINK Cop26 off to shaky start as queues and chaos mar first 24 hours Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  7

 7 : COP21_UK80
On Saturday 12 December 2015, 195 countries adopted the Paris Climate Agreement. Arkema is proud to have been involved to the best of its abilities in this historic undertaking: the ‘first universal agreement on climate’. Throughout 2015, Arkema has reaffirmed its commitments to the protection of our planet. From preparatory conferences last May to its involvement in situ in Le Bourget, Arkema indeed expressed its support for the negotiations of the 21st Conference of the Parties: CEFIC Open Letter, Business Manifesto on Climate, debates with Heike Faulhammer and Nicolas de Warren amongst others, and of course Arche de Noe Climat. Through this operation, Arkema is proud to have conveyed the messages of French people to the negotiators, and to have played a role in discussions and debates. The Altuglas animals will have been privileged witnesses to this landmark moment, and will continue their mission of rallying people around the urgency of climate issues. 80 of them are eagerly awaited on the Paris City Hall esplanade from 22 December 2015 to 9 January 2016. Meanwhile, Arkema maintains its commitment to fight against climate change. The Group optimizes its industrial practices to minimize as much as possible the production of greenhouse gases, while also innovating to offer its customers responsible and sustainable solutions and products. To be continued. . . Arkema and COP21 COP21 COP21 official website All our # COP21 actions on Twitter Back to list Contacts Veronique OBRECHT External communication for plants and subsidiaries Tel: +33 (0)1 49 00 88 41 [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  8

 8 : COP24_UK202
NIGERIAN president Muhammadu Buhari has been forced to deny social media rumours he died and was replaced by a Sudanese body double. NO BASIS: Muhammadu Buhari called the claims of his death ‘ignorant rumours’ A long-running conspiracy theory circulating online claims Buhari died in 2017 and was replaced by a lookalike from Sudan called Jubril.The theory is thought to derive from a five-month period Buhari, 75, spent in Britain receiving treatment for an undisclosed medical condition.Fake or doctored pictures purporting to be his “clone” have been posted to Facebook, Twitter and YouTube to support the bizarre hoax.In a surprising move, he dismissed the social media claims as “ignorant rumours” in a tweet posted to his account on Sunday.He shared a video of him addressing the issue at a town hall session in Poland, where he was asked about the claims while attending a conference. DENIAL: Buhari is running for re-election in February having been in office since 2015 BIZARRE: The death hoax has been posted on social media networks “It’s real me, I assure you. I will soon celebrate my 76th birthday and I will still go strong,” Buhari said.”A lot of people hoped that I died during my ill health.”Some even reached out to the Vice President to consider them to be his deputy because they assumed I was dead.”That embarrassed him a lot and of course, he visited me when I was in London convalescing.” SPECULATION: No evidence has been presented, but videos making the claim have swept the web Muhammadu Buhari Buhari, who was in Poland to attend the UN Climate Change Conference, COP24 , said those who spread the rumour are “irreligious”.The presidency circulated Buhari’s comments in an emailed statement entitled “It’s Real Me, President Buhari Responds to Cloning Allegation”.Buhari is running for re-election in February having been in office since 2015.He is a retired major general in the Nigerian Army and previously served as the nation’s head of state in the 1980s after taking power in a military coup d’‘e9tat. Related articles ’Humble and deep-down decent’ President George H.W. Bush dies aged 94 Brit WARNING to Russia: MI6 spy chief tells Putin ‘don’t underestimate us’ Trump ASSASSINATION plot stopped after man stole forklift to FLIP President’s limo
  9

 9 : COP22_UK167
Announced during the 22nd session of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of Parties ( COP22 ), this project will diversify the country’s power generation mix with a clean source of renewable power and help the country reduce GHG emissions. “In India, outdoor air pollution is an ever growing public health concern. OPIC’s partnership with Renew Power Ventures will have a transformative impact by helping India both reduce its emissions and increase energy capacity in the country through a diversified power generation mix,” said OPIC President and CEO Elizabeth L. Littlefield. “OPIC is committed to assisting India in its transition to a low carbon economy by investing in clean energy projects.” The Telangana solar project is the first project approved under the ReNew Master Financing Facility, a $250 million facility between OPIC and ReNew to be used for the development, construction, and operation of solar energy projects awarded under the Government of India’s Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission. Under the ReNew Master Financing Facility, up to 400 MW of new solar renewable power generation will be constructed in India across multiple projects. ReNew will be utilizing the innovative Master Financing Facility provided by OPIC to streamline the timeline for financing new renewable energy projects. Generating electricity from renewable energy can reduce a country’s dependence on fossil fuels and offers significant health benefits, in addition to being a sustainable source of energy. As the fourth largest energy consumer in the world, India must overcome a number of challenges to meet its rising energy demand and sustain economic growth. Currently, solar energy accounts for approximately one percent of total energy capacity in India, or 7.5 gigawatts. This project will support the Government of India’s goal to have 170 GW of installed renewable capacity by 2022, of which 100 GW are to be solar.
  10

 10 : COP23_UK168
FRANCE’S Emmanuel Macron was forced to deny he had offered Saad al-Hariri ‘political exile’ after inviting the former Lebanese premier to Paris in an effort to defuse mounting tensions in the Middle East. GETTY Emmanuel Macron was forced to deny he had offered Saad al-Hariri ‘political exile’ Saad al-Hariri plunged his country into uncertainty after he announced his abrupt resignation as prime minister during a trip to Saudi Arabia less than two weeks ago. Mr Macron told reporters on the sidelines of the COP23 climate change conference in Bonn, Germany, without speculating further: “I spoke with [Crown Prince] Mohammed bin Salman and with Mr Hariri and we agreed that he would spend a few days in France with his family.”~ “We need a strong Lebanon with her territorial integrity respected. We need leaders who are free to make their own choices and speak freely.” Related articles Macron and Merkel speak at ‘perfect opportunity’ to lead Europe Macron ally concedes ‘hard’ Brexit would DAMAGE French economy GETTY Mr Macron also spoke with Mohammed bin Salman A presidential source later confirmed the former prime minister would arrive in France “in the coming days”.~ Mr Hariri’s unexpected resignation from the Saudi capital Riyadh on November 4 threw Lebanon into political turmoil, and led to widespread speculation that he was being held in Saudi Arabia against his will. But while Mr Macron has successfully positioned himself as a broker between Saudi Arabia and Lebanon, his decision to invite Mr Hariri to France has further fuelled rumours that the former premier was coerced into resigning by the Saudis. France’s foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian, for his part, said that the Prince bin Salman had been “informed” of Mr Hariri’s decision, but refused to say for how long he and his family would stay in Paris. GETTY France’s foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian Mr Le Drian said: “Mr Hariri keeps his own agenda; the decision is his and his alone to make.” Earlier on Wednesday, government spokesperson Christophe Castaner told French media that Mr Macron wanted Mr Hariri to “confirm his willingness to resign,” adding that France fully supported an “independent and autonomous” Lebanon. Lebanese foreign minister Gebran Bassil, for his part, said earlier this week that he was “not sure” when and if Mr Hariri would return home. Mr Bassil said in an interview with the French daily Le Monde published on Wednesday: “The crisis will come to an end when Mr Hariri returns to Lebanon.”I can’t say for sure when [Mr Hariri] will come home. But he can only prove he is free by returning home from Saudi Arabia. The situation he is in right now is ambiguous and not normal.” Mr Bassil added that Mr Hariri’s resignation had left the people of Lebanon feeling deeply “frustrated” because in their eyes “he is still their prime minister”. Related articles EU minister REFUSES to reveal SHOCK Brexit demands in live interview Macron’s plot to try and influence Juncker replacement REVOLT AT MACRON: 100 party members QUIT at ‘undemocratic’ leader
  11

 11 : COP23_UK104
The IAEA’s annual publication on energy and electricity projections show that nuclear power’s global potential up to 2050 remains high, although its expansion is expected to slow in coming years. The newly released 37th edition of Energy, Electricity and Nuclear Power Estimates for the Period up to 2050 (Reference Data Series No. 1 (RDS-1)) documents these trends in detail by region. Projections are presented as low and high estimates, reflecting different driving factors that have an impact on nuclear power deployment. Interest in nuclear power remains particularly strong in the developing world, the publication highlights. However, compared with the 2016 projections for 2030, the 2017 projections were reduced by 45 GW(e)[1] by 2030 in both high and low cases. Over the short term, the low price of natural gas, the impact of renewable energy sources on electricity prices, and national nuclear policies in several countries following the accident at Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant in 2011 are expected to affect nuclear growth prospects. Yet, commitments agreed to at the 21st session of the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP21) could have a positive impact on nuclear energy development in the future. The high projections indicate an increase from 2016 levels by 42% in 2030, by 83% in 2040 and by 123% in 2050. The low projections, on the other hand, indicate a decline in capacity by 12% in 2030 and 15% in 2040, before rebounding to present levels by 2050. The wide range in these projections is also due to the considerable number of reactors scheduled to be retired around 2030 and beyond, particularly in North America and Europe, and whether new nuclear capacity would be built to replace these retirements. The leading influential factors that might affect the future of nuclear power are discussed in detail in the recent IAEA report on International Status and Prospects for Nuclear Power 2017. Regional Trends Northern America: In both low and high cases, nuclear electricity production is expected to change significantly in this region over the next two decades. Latin America & the Caribbean: Nuclear electricity production is projected to increase in both low and high cases, but its role will remain small in the coming decades. Northern, Western and Southern Europe: Several countries in these regions have announced a phase-out of nuclear power. The regions’ nuclear power capacity will therefore change significantly in the coming years. Eastern Europe: Nuclear electricity production is projected to continue to grow in both low and high cases, albeit at different rates. Africa: In the low case, nuclear electrical generating capacity is projected to stay at the present level of 2 GW(e) until 2030 and to increase to 7 GW(e) by 2050. The development of nuclear power is expected to face uncertainty. Western Asia: Although the single nuclear power reactor in the region provided only 2 TWh in 2016, nuclear electricity production is expected to increase significantly in both the low and high cases. Southern Asia: The existing nuclear power reactors in the Southern Asia region are relatively young, and the majority are expected to remain in operation until the middle of the century. Nuclear electricity production is projected to continue to grow in both the low and high cases. Central and Eastern Asia: Nuclear electrical generating capacity is projected to increase significantly in both low and high cases. South-eastern Asia: Nuclear electricity will appear in the electricity production mix of this region only after 2030. Contact: Tel: [43-1] 2600-21273 Fax: [43-1] 2600-29610 [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  12

 12 : COP21_UK40
Taipei, Taiwan - Delta announced that it joined the ‘Road to Paris’ initiative by the Carbon Disclosure Project and has committed to a 30% reduction in its electricity intensity by the year 2020, which follows a 50% reduction already achieved by the company over the past five years. Delta Electronics will actively participate in a series of events that reflect its commitment to sustainability during the upcoming COP21 . Delta will present its 21 green buildings, which it has constructed over the past 10 years, at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. In addition, Delta will organize a side event, which has been approved by the United Nations COP21 General Secretariat, to share its knowledge and achievements in energy savings and the construction of green buildings. Mr. Ping Cheng, chief executive officer of Delta Electronics, emphasized, ‘Delta has a long-term commitment to sustainability. From 2010 to 2014, we successfully reduced our electricity intensity (electricity use per product value) by 50% compared to 2009 and in the past 10 years we have constructed 21 green buildings. Delta is now enhancing our commitment by engaging in the CDP’s Road to Paris initiative and promising a further 30% reduction in electricity intensity by 2020, and we are expanding our commitment to the whole group.’ Ms. Shan-Shan Guo, chief brand officer of Delta Electronics and executive director of Delta Electronics Foundation, said, ‘Delta is honored to have received permission by the UN COP21 General Secretariat to organize a side event at the Climate Generations areas during COP21 . After 10 years of implementing green buildings, we wish to share our experience by organizing a side event and hosting the ’Delta 21 Green Buildings at COP21 Exhibition’ at the Grand Palais, and show the world the efforts of a corporation that is deeply committed to sustainability.’ Since 2007, the Delta Electronics Foundation has attended the UN Climate Change Conferences annually, and in 2014, it hosted a side event in which Delta introduced their experience on rebuilding the Namasia Elementary School. Over the years, Delta’s efforts to reduce carbon emissions have been recognized by international organizations such as the CDP, which selected Delta for its Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) in 2014-the only company chosen from the Greater China region. For the past five consecutive years, Delta has also been a member of the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) World Index and was a leader in the ICT Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Components in 2015. 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP21 ) will be the most important climate change conference in the past 10 years. We expect the participating countries to reach an agreement to reduce carbon emissions. During COP21 , Delta will use its advanced ‘edge-blending’ projection capabilities to exhibit its entire portfolio of green buildings inside the Grand Palais in Paris, France. The Delta Electronics Foundation will also organize a side event to share Delta’s contributions on green buildings and carbon footprint reduction. Contact: Delta Group 186, Ruey Kuang Road Neihu, Taipei 11491 Taiwan, R.O.C Tel: +886-2-8797-2088 Email: HYPERLINK mailto:news@delta.com.tw news@delta.com.tw [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  13

 13 : COP21_UK305
India, one of the world’ s largest coal users, will cut back on its investments in the fuel if the new climate deal due to be struck next week in Paris delivers more money to help it shift to cleaner sources of energy such as solar power, a senior negotiator said on Wednesday. We’ ve made it very clear that solar and wind is our first commitment, said Ajay Mathur, director general of India’ s Bureau of Energy Efficiency, at the Paris talks, HYPERLINK known as COP21 . Hydro, nuclear, all of these non-carbon sources are what we will develop to the largest extent we can, he told reporters. But it has to be affordable. He was speaking as campaigners from a fossil fuel divestment movement said the number of investors shunning coal, gas and oil has surged ahead of the Paris conference. At least 500 institutions with more than $3.4tn in assets have pledged to avoid or cut holdings in fossil fuels, said activist groups 350.org and Divest-Invest. That represents a big jump from a year ago, when 181 institutions representing about $50bn in assets were committed to such a step, they said. A spate of city councils, banks, pension funds, churches and universities have pledged to cut back or shun coal investments this year. One of the most striking commitments came last month when Allianz, the German insurance group, said it would pull more than € 4bn ($4.3bn) from companies with coal businesses. Earlier this year, the Norwegian parliament decided the country’ s $857bn sovereign wealth fund should withdraw from any company in which coal represents more than 30 per cent of the business. Both moves came in the wake of a divestment campaign that began on US college campuses more than two years ago in an effort to make fossil fuel holdings as unpopular as tobacco or investments in apartheid-era South Africa. Churches and wealthy individuals with an interest in climate change then joined, including the heirs to the Rockefeller oil fortune. The momentum in this divestment campaign is accelerating day by day, Stephen Heintz, president of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, told journalists at the Paris climate conference on Wednesday. There is a moral imperative to save the planet and to do so we need to end the fossil fuel era now, he said. Benjamin Sporton, chief executive of the World Coal Association said that although the campaigners’ multi-trillion dollar headline figures seemed large, a lot of the institutions and funds with these assets did not currently have coal holdings and the amount of money actually being pulled out of coal was relatively small. While there are companies and funds saying they want to get out of coal, there are plenty of others that are remaining invested, he told the Financial Times. This was especially the case in South East Asia and in large countries such as India, where governments are planning to continue using coal for electricity. Mr Sporton said he hoped the Paris climate talks would help drive the use of technology that allows coal to be burnt more efficiently and cleanly, a chief aim of his members. Coal companies have borne the brunt of the divestment push because coal produces more carbon emissions when burnt than other fossil fuels such as natural gas. But it remains an abundant and cheap source of energy in many developing countries and is the biggest source of electricity globally, accounting for a 41 per cent share of the world’ s electricity, according to the International Energy Agency. That global share is expected to fall to just over 30 per cent by 2030, the agency says, as fast-growing renewable energy sources supply a larger proportion of electricity. However, divestments have not been the only feature of this year’ s assault on coal. Banks have made public their refusal to fund some coal investments. In Australia, where India’ s Adani group wants to build the country’ s largest proposed coal project, Standard Chartered has said it will no longer be involved in the increasingly controversial development. Banks including Deutsche and HSBC had already steered clear. And multilateral commitments to the coal industry have been reined in. Last month member states of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development agreed limits on export subsidies for coal-fired power stations, following unilateral initiatives to curb export credits by countries including the UK and US. But divestment has its critics. Anne Stausboll, chief executive of Calpers, the California state pension system, has called lobbying for divestment flawed and said it is more constructive to engage with companies where the fund invests. However California approved a divestment law in October. Calpers will evaluate divestment as outlined in the bill , the fund said. As of June it had $57m invested in 27 thermal coal companies. Listen to the HYPERLINK World Weekly podcast
  14

 14 : COP23_UK165
Cooperation on strengthening financial sector resilience. The EBRD is partnering with the Global Centre of Excellence on Climate Adaptation (GCECA) in a joint initiative to help strengthen the resilience of the financial sector to the impacts of climate change. Investors and businesses are becoming increasingly aware of the need to understand and manage the risks associated with climate change. In order to explore options for addressing these issues, the EBRD and GCECA will organise a conference entitled ‘Towards a Resilient Financial Sector: Disclosing Physical Climate Risk & Opportunities’, to be held at the EBRD’s London Headquarters on 31 May 2018. The conference will bring together the financial, technical and policy perspectives to shape market action on climate resilience. The focus will be on improving financial sector awareness of climate risks and their impacts on investments, as well as facilitating the emergence of climate risk and resilience metrics, and identifying ways on which investors and businesses can integrate climate change intelligence into their business strategies and investment planning. Announcing the cooperation, Josue Tanaka, Managing Director, Operational Strategy and Planning, Energy Efficiency and Climate Change, said: ‘We are very pleased to partner with the GCECA, the first international institution with a specific focus on climate change adaptation. Building climate resilient economies requires broad market action by businesses and investors, alongside effective government policies. We see great opportunities for working with the GCECA and a wider range of other stakeholders to enable businesses and investors to realise the value that can be created through building climate resilience.’ ‘We are grateful that the Paris Agreement has put Climate Adaptation on a par with mitigation but there is a long way to go. Understanding Climate Adaptation is crucial if we want to put paper into practice.’ Christiaan Wallet, Operations Director of GCECA. The announcement was made today in Bonn at the COP23 climate conference which this year is focussing on the implementation of the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change. The EBRD is organising four panels on key climate issues and Bank representatives are also taking part in many more events. The EBRD is a major investor in climate finance in many of the 38 emerging economies where it works, a driving force in energy efficiency projects, a pioneer in the development of renewable energy sources and an increasingly important player in adaptation to climate change, having signed almost 180 climate resilience investment since 2011. Under its Green Economy Transition (GET) approach, the EBRD aims to dedicate 40 per cent of its annual investment to green finance by 2020 and is well on the way to achieving this objective. The Global Centre of Excellence on Climate Adaptation helps countries, institutions and businesses to adapt to a warming climate, which is increasing the frequency of natural disasters and causing economic disruptions. It is bringing together international partners, including leading knowledge institutes, businesses, NGOs, local and national governments, international organisations and financial institutions. A technical secretariat has been created and funded by the EBRD. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  15

 15 : COP21_UK43
Stepping out from the shadow of her Cabinet colleagues? Amber Rudd hasn’t enjoyed a great deal of airtime since she was appointed Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change following this year’s General Election - but the rather pressing matter of our rapidly warming planet has given her an opportunity to shine. Read more Amber Rudd’s delicate balancing act in Paris What’s on the agenda? Ms Rudd will be guaranteed exposure over the next few days as a key speaker at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris. The Conservative MP for the East Sussex constituency ofHastings and Rye is one of 12 ministers at the centre of the talks. Delegates aim to reach alegally binding and universal agreement on climate at the summit, which is due to wrap up on 11 November. There’s quite a bit riding on this conference, then. . . Just the future of planet Earth and all its inhabitants. Discussions have been broken into six broad areas, each of which is being led by a minister from a developed country and another from a developing nation. Ms Rudd is working with Pa Ousman Jarju, of Gambia. They are responsible for the section of the talks dealing with immediate actions to tackle global warming between now and 2020. How will the UK help combat global warming? Last month Ms Rudd announced all coal-fired power plants in the UK would be closed down by 2025. Climate campaigners welcomed the measure - but were less impressed with Ms Rudd’s plans to introduce new gas and nuclear plants rather than cleaner alternatives. What role will she play in the climate talks? Has she got what it takes to avert global disaster?
  16

 16 : COP26_UK303
COP26 ’ s contributions to key themes from clean energy, youth participation, biodiversity, and impacts of climate change. Op-ed by British Ambassador to Guatemala Nick Whittingham on COP26 : The most important conference of our lifetime is underway in the UK. It is a conference that will likely determine what type of world we pass on to future generations. Success will ensure our children and grandchildren can prosper. Failure could spell disaster for life as we know it. Known as COP-26 for short, the United Nations Climate Conference is one of the last opportunities countries will have to come together and solve mankind’ s greatest challenge - a challenge for its very survival. Six years ago the world saw the birth of the Paris Agreement, which was a milestone in global efforts to address climate change. It resulted in a binding agreement, uniting all nations to a common cause. This cause was to adapt to the effects of climate change, limit the increase in global average temperature to well below two degrees, pursuing efforts towards 1.5, with respect to pre-industrial levels. In Paris, world leaders provided the world with consensus, ambition and hope. But it was just the beginning. And yesterday the world began to converge on the great city of Glasgow for the COP26 the next and very crucial step on the path to preventing irreversible and catastrophic climate change. Extreme weather can be seen across the world. This summer we have seen devastating floods in central Europe and China, raging wildfires in North America. A year ago, Guatemala was hit by two ferocious hurricanes leaving significant economic and human damage. The impact of a relatively small temperature increase is already posing challenges to humanity. It does not require a vivid imagination to picture how much more serious the impact of climate change will be if we do not act now. Guatemala, as a vulnerable country, has a very important voice and its example can lead others to take important steps. Many climate-vulnerable countries are leading the way in reducing emissions. I witnessed with great enthusiasm a week ago the granting of forest concessions in Pet’e9n and how the Maya Biosphere Reserve is a lung of the world that counteracts global emissions. I am also proud of the efforts that the UK is making to create a greener future. But to make the difference needed to meet the 1.5 degree temperature limit to be enshrined in the Paris Agreement much more is needed. All countries need to set ambitious emission reduction targets, businesses need to adapt and create new green pathways to success and individuals need to change their lifestyles and leave behind a greener footprint. COP26 is not a photo shoot. It is not a talking shop. It is a forum where the world’ s leaders and country delegations must map out a better path. A path leading to the preservation of the world as we know it. Therefore, I congratulate the Guatemalan delegation that will soon travel to Glasgow to join forces on all these issues. Guatemala has shown important leadership in the fight against climate change through its emission reduction policy, in the protection of forests and also in the preservation of water sources. All of this is crucial in creating a future, which we can look forward to with more optimism, boost economic growth and create prosperity. We must all do our part because the world will either succeed or fail as one. Moreover, we are almost at the end of the road. In the next few days, we will see a series of excellent articles in HYPERLINK Prensa Libre addressing the issues of COP26 and its relationship with Guatemala. I invite you to follow and comment on them, and think about how we can together build a more sustainable and prosperous world. Share this page HYPERLINK u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.gov.uk%2Fgovernment%2Fnews%2Fcop26-and-guatemala Share on Facebook HYPERLINK url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.gov.uk%2Fgovernment%2Fnews%2Fcop26-and- guatemala&text=COP26%20and%20Guatemala Share on Twitter Published 2 November 2021 Language:
~ENGLISH
  17

 17 : COP21_UK343
Click here for full-size image epa05048358 Fijian Prime Minister Josaia Bainimarama (R) is welcomed by French President Francois Hollande (L) upon his arrival for the opening of the UN conference on climate change COP21 , at Le Bourget, outside Paris, 30 November 2015. The 21st Conference of the Parties ( COP21 ) is held in Paris from 30 November to 11 December aimed at reaching an international agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions and curtail climate change. EPA/LOIC VENANCE / POOL MAXPPP OUT IMAGE ID: EPALIVE926297 HYPERLINK Subject to copyright. Click here for information regarding redistribution of this image.
  18

 18 : COP21_UK344
Click here for full-size image epa05048387 Iranian Vice-President Masoumeh Ebtekar (R) is welcomed by French President Francois Hollande (L) upon her arrival for the opening of the UN conference on climate change COP21 , at Le Bourget, outside Paris, 30 November 2015. The 21st Conference of the Parties ( COP21 ) is held in Paris from 30 November to 11 December aimed at reaching an international agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions and curtail climate change. EPA/LOIC VENANCE / POOL MAXPPP OUT IMAGE ID: EPALIVE926312 HYPERLINK Subject to copyright. Click here for information regarding redistribution of this image.
  19

 19 : COP23_UK75
Text of report in English by Nepalese newspaper The Kathmandu Post website on 7 November As one of the countries most vulnerable to climate change, Nepal will draw the attention of international community during the global climate change conference, also called Conference of Parties ( COP23 ), that kicked off in Bonn, Germany, on Monday [6 November]. The Nepali delegation led by Minister for Population and Environment Mithila Chaudhary will take part in several events, sharing Nepal’s concerns on the effects of climate change that the country confronts. The twenty-third session of the COP to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) is a global event which brings together policy makers, delegates, scientists, lobbyists and private sectors. Nepal has prepared a detailed status paper especially for the COP23 . It will be sharing its climate change experiences at the event, according to Bishwo Nath Oli, secretary at the Environment Ministry. “We have prepared the status report including our experience with climate change over the years and what we expect from the international community,” said Secretary Oli. “The status paper was necessary also for making our participation in the conference effective.” The document, drafted after a series of consultations with stakeholders and experts, urges implementation of previous agreements especially the Paris Agreement, widely seen as a historic accord that pledges to limit global temperature rise below 2 degrees Celsius. As a party to the UNFCC, Nepal signed the Paris Agreement in April last year. The Legislature-Parliament ratified the accord in October the same year. Global leaders converging at the COP23 are expected to push for implementation of the 2015 Paris Agreement by developing guidelines, incorporating various issues like adaptation, emission reduction, transparency of action and support, technology transfer and capacity-building of the poor and highly vulnerable countries like Nepal. Besides, the global event is also supposed to finalise the Paris Agreement rule book to be adopted at the COP24 in Poland next year. In Nepal’s status paper, the country has urged the international community to build momentum and trust among themselves for preparing the rule book guiding implementation of the Paris Accord. Nepal, besides stressing timely adoption of the rule book and implementation of the accord, has asked for technical and financial support it deserves as a Least Developed Country (LDC). The status paper incorporates topics such as programmes under the Paris Accord, mitigation measures, adaptation, means of implementation, and cross-cutting agendas like climate and gender. Under these areas, the paper enlists Nepal’s experiences and furnishes demands while fighting climate change. On the fund for climate-vulnerable countries, the status paper reads, “While mitigation is important, adaptation finance must also be prioritised. Green Climate Fund should have more focus on adaptation for LDCs. The Least Developed Countries Fund is important for countries like Nepal; hence, the developed countries should urgently pledge to the Fund and support the actions in LDCs.” Citing its disasters like recent flooding, Nepal has also requested for separate funding for loss and damage, urging the COP23 to provide space to discuss funding requirements for vulnerable countries as compensation for loss and damage. The international access to climate finance has always been difficult for LDCs. The status paper suggests that simplified, easy and direct access of support must be in place so that the LDCs can access the necessary resources for climate actions. Nepal has also drawn attention of the developed world for support in the field of technology transfer and capacity-building, which has been sluggish so far. “The Paris Committee on Capacity-building has been established to support countries like Nepal. However, not much progress has been made under this heading. The support mechanism for LDCs must be expedited,” reads the document. Source: The Kathmandu Post website, Kathmandu, in English 7 Nov 17
  20

 20 : COP23_UK171
One year after the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on climate change, the Bonn Conference, which opens on 6 November in Germany, will be an opportunity for nations around the world to show their ambition for climate action and their determination to keep their promises. “While Paris represented one of those moments where the best of humanity achieved an agreement so important to our collective futures, Bonn represents how we will move forward to fulfill its promise”, said the Executive Secretary of United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Patricia Espinosa, on the margins of a ministerial meeting in Fiji on 17 October 2017 to prepare for the Bonn Conference of the Convention’s States Parties. “We are running out of time to turn things around. To do so, we must significantly increase our efforts to reduce emissions and our carbon footprints,” she added. The Paris Agreement, which was adopted by the 196 Parties to the UNFCCC in December 2015 in the French capital after which it is named, calls on countries to combat climate change by limiting the rise of global temperature below 2 degrees Celsius and strive not to exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius. A year ago, the Marrakech Climate Conference concluded with the Marrakech Action Proclamation, for our climate and sustainable development, in which the UNFCCC States Parties affirmed their “commitment” to the “full implementation” of the Paris Agreement. Today, 169 Parties have ratified the Agreement. At the Bonn Conference, informally known as COP 23 , countries will seek to move forward in completing the rule book for operationalizing the Paris Agreement. The Conference, which runs until 17 November, is chaired by Fiji, an island State particularly affected by the impacts of climate change. “Never has our work been more necessary. We see this with respect to the extreme weather events affecting almost every continent throughout the world,” said Ms. Espinosa. COP 23 President and Fiji Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama agrees. “We can no longer ignore this crisis. Whether it is fires in California, Portugal and Spain. Flooding in Nigeria, India and Bangladesh. The dramatic Arctic melt. Ice breaking off the continent of Antarctica. The recent hurricanes that devastated the Caribbean and the southern United States [. . . ] It’s hard to find any part of the world that is unaffected by these events”, he said at the ministerial meeting in Fiji. Bonn Conference an opportunity to boost climate risk management efforts In an op-ed published in October 2017, Ms. Espinosa, alongside the Administrator of the UN Development Programme (UNDP), Achim Steiner, and the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Disaster Risk Reduction, Robert Glasser, said the Bonn Conference “provides an opportunity to not only accelerate emission reductions but also boost the serious work of ensuring that the management of climate risk is integrated into disaster risk management as a whole.” A week before the opening of the Bonn Conference, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) announced that the levels of carbon dioxide (C02) surged at
“record-breaking speed” to new highs in 2016. The Bonn Conference will feature a series of meetings and events, including the high-level segment, on 15 November and 16 November, attended by Heads of State and Government, Ministers, and UN Secretary-General Ant’f3nio Guterres. Mr. Guterres has invited leaders to consider championing six high-impact areas at a special Climate Summit in 2019. These areas are investment in clean technology, maturing carbon pricing, enabling the energy transition, risk mitigation and building resilience, augmenting the contribution of sub-national actors and business and mobilizing climate finance. “Increasing ambition is the only way to keep the global temperature rise well below 2 degrees Celsius this century, and as close to 1.5 degree as possible. By focusing on these sectors, we can substantially reduce the gap between where we are and where we need to be,” said UN Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed, at the pre-COP meeting in Fiji. Among the side events scheduled at COP 23 , several will be organized under the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action to show how cities, regions, private sector companies and investors are trying to implement the Paris Agreement in the areas of energy, water, agriculture, oceans and coastal areas, human settlements, transportation, industry, and forests. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  21

 21 : COP25_UK325
31st Jan 2020 - 9:53am EQ Investors signs up to climate-change investing pact Submitted 31/01/2020 - 9:53am Wealth manager EQ Investors (EQ) has joined Climate Action 100+, the world’s largest group of investors by assets pressuring companies to act on climate change. The initiative is aimed at pushing the world’s largest corporate greenhouse gas emitters to take action on climate change. ~ Launched in 2017, Climate Action 100+ is a group of more than 370 institutional investors that represents around USD41 trillion in assets. The group pressures fossil fuel producers and other companies responsible for two-thirds of annual global industrial emissions to show how they will reduce carbon dioxide pollution. It has successfully pressured oil giants Royal Dutch Shell and BP to set targets to reduce emissions and disclose more data. ~ EQ’s Head of Impact Investing, Damien Lardoux, says: € Joining Climate Action 100+ is a natural progression of the work we have done as a company. Evidence of the impact of climate risk on investment portfolios is building rapidly and we’d encourage more companies to develop climate strategies in line with the 2016 Paris Agreement.€ ~ The EQ Positive Impact Portfolios invest in companies with lower operational carbon footprints and those that are leaders in the global green transition. ~ In a further move to lead on climate change. EQ has also committed to accelerate the reduction of its greenhouse gas emissions to reach a target of net zero by 2030, 20 years ahead of the targets set in the Paris Agreement. More than 500 B Corps made the commitment at the annual UN climate conference, COP25 , held in Madrid in December. Tags
  22

 22 : COP22_UK190
The agreement was ratified last month, less than a year after it was approved by 197 countries under the French Presidency at COP21 last December. The agreement marks an unprecedented milestone in the global effort to combat climate change. Under the landmark agreement, nations have agreed to limit greenhouse gas emissions and focus efforts and investments toward a low-carbon, resilient and sustainable future. The goal is to keep global average temperatures from rising well below 2°C with the aim of working to limit it to 1.5°C. The question now turns to implementing the terms of the agreement, helping nations meet their goals and, more critically, ratchet them further. Next week, the world meets in Marrakesh, Morocco, during COP22 to do just that. The International Energy Agency will soon release World Energy Outlook 2016, which will highlight the various pathways to reach these targets. The report this year looks at individual country pledges and examines how close - or far - nations are from reaching these goals. It outlines a course that would limit the rise in global temperature to below 2°C and, for the first time, it also plots possible pathways for meeting the much more ambitious 1.5°C goal. Let’ s not underestimate the task ahead, said Dr Fatih Birol, the executive director of the IEA. Limiting carbon emissions and changing our energy systems is a monumental challenge. But the IEA is working with governments around the world to help identify solutions and show how it can be done. The Paris Agreement will transform the global energy system for decades to come. WEO-2016 will examine how a post-Paris world redefines the idea of energy security, particularly in the power sector, the frontline in the fight against climate change. WEO-2016 offers the most comprehensive analysis of what this transformation of the energy sector might look like, thanks to its energy projections to 2040. It reviews the key opportunities and challenges ahead for renewable energy, the central pillar of the low-carbon energy transition, as well as the critical role for energy efficiency.
  23

 23 : COP22_UK28
November 13, 2016 Ten days after the entry into force of the landmark Paris Agreement, dozens of heads of State and Government are expected on Tuesday at the United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP 22 ), which started in Marrakech, Morocco, on 7 November 2016. Before the Conference wraps up on 18 November, State Parties hope to define the rules for the accord and to lay out a viable plan for providing at least $ 100 billion a year to developing countries to support climate action. Adopted by 196 States Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) last December, the Paris Agreement, so-named after the French capital where it was approved, aims to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change by keeping the global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit it to 1.5 degrees Celsius. It entered into force in record time on 4 November 2016. The Marrakech Conference includes a number of meetings and high-level events, including the high-level segment to be attended by dozens of heads of State and Government, on Tuesday 15 November. So we really hit the ground with this unexpected success in many ways of the entry into force of the Agreement much earlier than expected. But now at the same time we have more urgency to get to work and finalize the elements we need in order to have a fully operational Paris Agreement During the first week of COP 22 , in parallel with the negotiations between the Parties, a series of thematic days on forests, water, cities, energy and transport highlighted the crucial role of non-state actors, including businesses, cities and non-governmental organizations, to implement the Agreement. On Saturday, UNFCCC Executive Secretary, Patricia Espinosa, co-host of COP 22 , welcomed the fact that 105 countries have now ratified the Paris Agreement. “It gives the Agreement a lot of weight and a lot of credibility”, she said at a press conference. “It has happened in record time”, she added. “So we really hit the ground with this unexpected success in many ways of the entry into force of the Agreement much earlier than expected. But now at the same time we have more urgency to get to work and finalize the elements we need in order to have a fully operational Paris Agreement”. The President of COP 22 , Salaheddine Mezouar, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Morocco, underscored “an extremely positive state of mind, a commitment of everyone to maintain the momentum and help COP 22 be the one we all wanted, a COP of action, a COP of commitment, a COP that confirms the determination of all Parties, the international community as a whole, to continue climate action”. Mr. Mezouar stressed that the main priorities of the Moroccan Presidency of COP 22 are to create a bridge between “the world of negotiations and the world of action”, to get Parties to increase their national commitments, to focus on climate finance and to transform climate initiatives launched at COP 21 into concrete projects. Asked about the uncertainties raised by the US presidential election, Mr. Mezouar said that the participants of the Marrakech Conference remained
“confident” and that it was necessary “to stay the course” and “keep this extraordinary momentum”.
  24

 24 : COP26_UK125
HYPERLINK here . The big topic at COP26 is how the world’ s leaders will commit to the agreement made five years ago in Paris to keep global warming to well below 2’b0C. The impact of allowing just 0.5’b0C extra rise in temperature is critical - you can see more about this in our HYPERLINK explainer and HYPERLINK infographic here. MMO also has a presence at MMO, with the vital work of Marine Plans in addressing climate change demonstrated in a virtual presenation (see below) by by Paul Gilliland, Head of Marine Planning as part of the COP26 HYPERLINK virtual ocean pavilion HYPERLINK v=PkBZWgAJr6Y virtual presentation MMO also plays a leading role in ocean protection and management as part of the UK Government’ s HYPERLINK Blue Belt Programme HYPERLINK virtual ocean pavilion The Blue Belt programme has also supported the UK Overseas Territories with planning and materials for their event on Nature Day in the UK Government Pavilion and made a short video (see below) to introduce the role of the Programme in helping to understand and mitigate climate change impacts across the UK Overseas Territories: HYPERLINK v=dx-mMquT3pM short video Both MMO and Blue Belt videos feature in the HYPERLINK virtual ocean pavilion COP26 Presidency - Ocean Climate Science and Evidence booth. Registration is free with access to live ocean events and on demand content. For the detail of events going on, here is the official programme: HYPERLINK UK-Presidency-Pavilion-at- HYPERLINK COP26
-Event-Programme.pdf HYPERLINK COP26 HYPERLINK website . Share this page HYPERLINK u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.gov.uk%2Fgovernment%2Fnews%2Fmmo-and-cop26 Share on Facebook HYPERLINK url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.gov.uk%2Fgovernment%2Fnews%2Fmmo-and- cop26&text=MMO%20AND%20COP26 Share on Twitter Published 2 November 2021 Language: ~ENGLISH
  25

 25 : COP26_UK158
A CABINET Minister has adapted a line from Hollywood film Jerry Maguire to urge major nations to spend billions of pounds to help with climate change. HYPERLINK Alok Sharma echoed a scene from the Oscar-winning movie demanding countries stick to their financial commitments to aid poorer nations. The President of HYPERLINK COP26 used a speech in Boston, USA, asking for the £377-billion-a-year assistance for developing countries to be met by 2023 - three years later than hoped. He said: “To slightly adapt HYPERLINK Tom Cruise ‘s immortal line from the movie Jerry Maguire, ’show us the money’ ” The cash will play a vital role in helping with countries deal with issues such as cutting greenhouse gas emissions. Mr Sharma said next month he will chair a meeting of Ministers in Denmark to focus on the “implementation of commitments”. He told delegates that before the COP26 meeting in Glasgow a delivery plan was published which was promised to the developing countries. He said: “This showed how the $100 billion goal would be met, and helped to build trust and confidence.”Now, developing countries want to see progress on this plan. I am urging all developed countries to deliver on the financial commitments they have made and put funds on the table.” He said that the US plan to double their cash as part of the funding to £38.5 billion is “critical” to success. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  26

 26 : COP25_UK185
Thunberg posed with Moses the golden retriever and Roxy the black Labrador 16-year-old arrived in Stockholm after a months-long, continent-spanning trip She had sailed from England to the UN climate conference in New York in August She sailed back in November to arrive for the COP25 climate summit in Madrid Greta Thunberg has celebrated returning to Sweden after an epic four-month odyssey without using planes by posing with her pet dogs, Moses and Roxy. The 16-year-old climate activist, who was joined by the golden retriever and black Labrador at Stockholm’s harbour on Tuesday morning, captioned the photo: ‘Home!’ {22420222 Thunberg, who was recently named TIME magazine’s ‘Person of the Year’, has been on a continent-spanning climate campaign since sailing to the UN conference in New York in August. But after making it back for the COP25 climate summit in Madrid last week, Thunberg had a rocky journey home when she lashed out at Europe’s largest rail operator. The teen was locked in a Twitter spat over the weekend when she shared a photo of herself sitting on the floor of a train carriage heading through Germany. Thunberg’s transatlantic odyssey August 14: Sets sail from Plymouth, England. She had planned to travel south to Chile for the COP25 climate summit but because of political unrest it was relocated to Madrid. ‘It turns out I’ve traveled half around the world, the wrong way,’ she tweeted in November. November 13: Sets sail from Hampton, Virginia. December 3: Arrives in Lisbon, Portugal. December 9: Takes part in a massive rally in Madrid for COP25 . December 13: Fridays for Future protest in Turin, Italy. December 14: Train from Basel, Switzerland, north through Germany. Deutsche Bahn reacted sarcastically to her apparent complaint about
‘overcrowding,’ and reliably informed the world that Thunberg had been upgraded to First Class. Thunberg had written on Saturday: ‘Traveling on overcrowded trains through Germany. And I’m finally on my way home!’ In a stinging reply, DB said: ‘Dear #Greta, thank you for supporting us railroad workers in the fight against climate change! We were pleased that you were on the ICE (Inter City Express) 74 with us on Saturday. And with 100 percent green electricity. ’It would have been even nicer if you had also reported how friendly and competent you were looked after by our team at your seat in first class.’ Thunberg swiftly replied: ‘Our train from Basel was taken out of traffic. So we sat on the floor on 2 different trains. After G’f6ttingen I got a seat. This is no problem of course and I never said it was. ’Overcrowded trains is a great sign because it means the demand for train travel is high!’ DB followed up their tweets with a press release, in which they added that Greta’s travel companions ‘were sitting in first class from Frankfurt onwards’. Her online run-in with DB came just a day after she had spoken before a furious climate protest in Turin, Italy, and said that she would ‘put world leaders against the wall’ if they continued running away from their climate obligations. She later apologised for the remark, made after the summit in Madrid, claiming that a Swedish phrase had been lost in translation. ‘Yesterday I said we must hold our leaders accountable and unfortunately said “put them against the wall”. That’s Swenglish: £tt st’e4lla n’e5gon mot v’e4ggen’ (to put someone against the wall) means to hold someone accountable. That’s what happens when you improvise speeches in a second language.’ Ms Thunberg wrote. ‘But of course I apologise if anyone misunderstood this. I can not enough express the fact that I - as well as the entire school strike movement - are against any possible form of violence. It goes without saying but I say it anyway.’ And that followed on the heels of another high-profile Twitter storm after Thunberg was named TIME’s ‘Person of the Year.’ President Donald Trump - who was given the accolade in 2016 - tweeted that she had £nger management problems’ and told her to ‘chill’. Thunberg responded by changing her Twitter bio to include the words ‘currently chilling’. Thunberg’s journey through Germany was the last leg of a continent-spanning trip which began when she travelled to New York on a low-emissions yacht in August. Th 16-year-old activist started a worldwide movement last year when she began to strike from school every Friday to protest government inaction on climate change. Refusing to fly, she has twice crossed the Atlantic by boat in recent months in order to speak at a UN climate summit in New York and the hastily rearranged COP25 summit in Madrid.
  27

 27 : COP25_UK59
December 11, 2019 Patricia Espinosa, Executive Secretary of UN Climate Change (UNFCCC), expressed hope that more nations will follow their initiative, announced this week at the UN COP25 climate change conference in Madrid. Ms. Espinosa described the countries’ commitment to equipping a new generation with the knowledge, awareness and skills to tackle climate change as a key contribution to realizing the goals of the Paris Agreement, which aims to keep global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. “Climate change should be included in all school curricula and should play a central role in updated Nationally Determined Contributions”, she said, referring to countries’ efforts to reduce the emissions that cause global warming. “I look forward towards more countries factoring in climate education into their national climate action plans.” Compulsory climate education needed The UNFCCC hopes there will be a critical mass of countries by the time COP 26 rolls around next year in the Scottish city of Glasgow. Italy and Mexico are encouraging other nations to prioritize climate education. “Young people are demanding that governments take climate change far more seriously. There are many areas of society where we must act, and act with increased ambition: compulsory education on these topics needs to be a key part of this national and international response to the big issues of our time”, said Lorenzo Fioramonti, Italy’s Minister of Education, Innovation and Research. Martha Delgado, Vice Minister of Global Affairs in Mexico’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said her country has incorporated mandatory environmental education into the constitution as the first step in a new comprehensive plan. “Great transformations can only be achieved through knowledge, awareness and the sense of collaboration”, she said. “We are convinced that environmental education is the route to meeting Sustainable Development Goals, an essential tool to fight the climate crisis and can prompt a profound cultural change to contribute to our planet’s sustainability.” Earth Day milestone a catalyst The two countries propose that other nations can use the celebration of Earth Day in April as the occasion to announce their plans for climate and environmental education. The 2020 commemoration also marks the 50th anniversary of Earth Day and the birth of the environmental movement. Kathleen Rogers, President of the Earth Day Network, pointed out that environmental literacy had been at the core of Earth Day since its inception, but that governments had not gone far enough. “Young people, through movements such as Fridays for Future, have been asking governments to tell the truth about the climate and environmental emergencies that we are now facing -
‘telling the truth’ needs to happen in the schools and universities, and needs to happen now”, she said. The Congregation for Catholic Institutes of the Holy See also has chosen Earth Day 2020 as a preparatory meeting for the Global Compact on Education to be launched by Pope Francis next May. The Compact will promote a global commitment that also teaches new generations respect for humankind and nature.
  28

 28 : COP22_UK145
It is almost a year since the Paris agreement was made by world leaders to limit global warming to 2C above pre-industrial temperatures. With 2015 marking the hottest year since records began and disasters from floods, droughts, storms and pests occurring more frequently, this year’s United Nations conference on climate change, COP22 , is likely to see campaigners pushing for further action and investment. This is particularly necessary for the millions of farmers around the world who rely on agriculture for their livelihoods and who are among the worst affected. For example, over recent years coffee farmers have seen crops wiped out by pests and diseases caused by the El Nino weather phenomenon. And a recent report from the Climate Institute and Fairtrade Australia (pdf) warned that 50% of the world’s current coffee producing land will disappear by 2050 as temperatures rise, affecting the quality and ultimately threatening the very survival of the plant. Many countries which depend on coffee exports as a main plank of the economy are also among the most vulnerable to climate risk. Prime coffee origins such as Honduras, Nicaragua, Vietnam, and Guatemala rank in the top 10 for climate-related damages since the 1990s. On top of this, because farmers continue to receive low prices for their coffee they are not able to invest in training, tools or other interventions to lessen the impacts of climate change. But by changing the way they farm there are ways to mitigate against some of these problems. Fairtrade has been working with farmers to reduce carbon emissions and become more resilient to the impacts of climate change, through projects run under its Fairtrade Climate Standard and Fairtrade Carbon Credits scheme, developed in partnership with the internationally recognised Gold Standard. These projects, which can be as simple as planting new trees or switching to renewable energy sources, are enabling communities to have a positive impact on the environment and helping them to withstand future shocks. By reducing their own emissions farmers can also generate “carbon credits” that can be sold to companies and raise further capital for investment in sustainable agriculture. One project to support farmers, with funding from the Big Lottery, has seen a Kenyan farming community benefit from “green energy” biogas cook stoves for their homes, which reduce people’s exposure to smoke and the time they spend collecting firewood. It saves significant costs too, as it is powered by cow dung and creates byproducts which can be used as organic fertiliser on the farm. Zeddy Rotich, a coffee farmer who is benefiting from this project, said: “I used to wake up early in the morning and fetch firewood first. So my children would get to school late, and I would also go to my coffee farm late, but now, with the use of the stove, my children get to school very early in the morning and I also go to my coffee farm very early in the morning, because the stove is very efficient. It is cost-free, it is hygienic, and it has got very many advantages over the other old method of cooking using firewood.”Through Fairtrade we have received training on climate change and we are taking action. However, we still need more support on training, because we need to train other people who are not aware about climate change. We also need more tree nursery beds, so that we can plant more trees as a way of tackling climate change. We also need more biogas stoves, especially in the community, so that each and every member will be using stove. That one will help prevent cutting more trees and it will preserve the environment.” It is time businesses scaled up their efforts to help smallholder farmers in supply chains access the finance they need to become more resilient and adapt their farming methods - at Fairtrade we hope this year’s COP22 in November provides the impetus to make this a reality. Content on this page is paid for and provided by Fairtrade Foundation, sponsor of the spotlight on commodities series
  29

 29 : COP22_UK100
THE United Nations came to Cardiff last week when students from across Wales took part in a mock United Nations conference on climate change. Students from across the country joined the debate and represented countries such as Brazil, USA, the Philippines and Saudi Arabia. The conference, run annually by Size of Wales in partnership with Welsh Centre for International Affairs, gives young people an opportunity to discuss the issue of climate change from the perspective of world leaders. Topics discussed ranged from clean energy, protecting rainforests, disaster management and how to finance these. “The conference encourages young people to be more engaged with climate change and political issues” said Janie Pridham, education officer at Size of Wales. “It also helps them develop understanding of other nations and cultures and to consider the responsibility of Wales, both locally and globally.” She added: “The standard of debate was extremely high this year.”It was wonderful to see the students take on their roles in such a realistic way. “Some delegates were quoting Trump and there was even a smear campaign between countries.” The aim of the day was for delegates to agree an international resolution on the issue of climate change, similar to the UN climate change COP22 talks that were held in Marrakesh in November. This year Sophie Howe, the Future Generations Commissioner, joined the event, acting as the secretary general and presiding over teams of three pupils representing 20 countries and organisations. “The bright, engaged young people I met today not only understand the critical point we have reached in terms of tackling climate change but understand that it is they who will be experiencing the positive or negative impact of our actions today.” the Commissioner said. “If we continue to give them a voice and an opportunity to influence, it gives me hope that there is a better future for everyone in Wales and that we will be a nation that makes a positive contribution to global wellbeing.” Size of Wales is a unique initiative which is helping to protect an area of rainforest twice the size of Wales as part of a national response to climate change. MOCKCOP is a highlight in its education programme, which also offers free workshops and assemblies to schools across Wales. The event was sponsored by Jenny Rathbone AM.
  30

 30 : COP24_UK234
If you are still looking for the perfect present for an annoying neighbour or unfaithful spouse, there are several services that will send a lump of coal. It would be an appropriate gift for delegates at the COP24 climate talks in Katowice, Poland, to send each other after an often acrimonious fortnight of negotiations. Right from the choice of host city, in the heartland of the Polish mining industry, coal has loomed large over the meeting, intended to agree ways to implement the global commitment to curbing climate change made in Paris in 2015. The talks finally concluded on Saturday after nearly 200 countries reached a compromise on a single set of rules to govern how they report their greenhouse gas emissions and their climate targets. The agreement was hailed as a success, but the strongest emotion among supporters of climate action was relief that the talks had not fallen apart. In theUS, Two incidents at the start of last week highlighted the difficulty of finding a global consensus on how to tackle the threat of climate change. First, the US teamed up with Russia, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to water down governments’ approval of a report spelling out the consequences of letting global temperatures rise more than 1.5C since preindustrial times. It was no coincidence that the objecting tackling the threat of climate change will be taken on by business group included the three largest oil producers, and another in the top 10. The US delegation went on to hold an event to emphasise the importance of fossil fuels, reflecting the Trump administration’s plan to withdraw from the Paris agreement. Wells Griffith, the lead official for international affairs at the US Department of Energy, told the meeting: “We strongly believe no country should have to sacrifice economic prosperity or energy security in pursuit of environmental sustainability.” The US may be in a minority of one in wanting to leave the Paris accord, but there are a wide range of interests and objectives among the remaining countries. Xie Zhenhua, China’s senior climate official, described the Katowice agreement as “a victory of multilateralism”, but the effort needed to reach that compromise suggests countries will continue to take different paths, at least for now. That means in some countries, particularly the US, much of the work in addressing the threat of climate change will be taken by businesses investing in renewable energy and taking other measures to reduce their emissions, often following pressure from shareholders. There are limits to this approach. Some of the world’s largest investors, including BlackRock, Vanguard and Axa, have increased their holdings in coal since the Paris agreement, according to a British non-profit group, InfluenceMap. A study published in the journal Nature Climate Change said companies were underestimating climate change. But given the difficulties attached to climate policy, the private sector looks one of the best bets to make steady progress. In the US, tackling the threat of climate change will be taken on by business
  31

 31 : COP26_UK145
Leonardo DiCaprio has made an appearance at the Cop26 climate summit in Glasgow. The Hollywood star, 46, was pictured at the conference surrounded by an entourage and wearing a blue suit featuring a colourful lapel pin. He has worked on a number of documentaries about animal poaching and the environment, and was appointed a United Nations representative on climate change in 2014. HYPERLINK Kew Science, the research arm of HYPERLINK Royal Botanic Gardens Cop26 . A spokeswoman said the actor would have seen “the wonderful display of plants and messages about nature-based solutions to climate change that the Kew’s display has on show”. DiCaprio, who describes himself as an actor and environmentalist on HYPERLINK Instagram updated his biography ahead of the event to include the hashtag # HYPERLINK COP26 He also added a link to the United Nations website page on climate change. In 2016, he was an executive producer on The Ivory Game, which examined the ivory trade. Oscar-winning director Fisher Stevens also filmed DiCaprio as he travelled around the world to see the effects of global warming for the 2016 feature Before The Flood. Read More HYPERLINK Homeowners cash in on HYPERLINK COP26 as flat ‘with driver’ listed for £37,000 HYPERLINK Splashing the cash and stopping the gas - what happened on day two of HYPERLINK Cop26 ? HYPERLINK COP26 : Leonardo DiCaprio arrives at climate summit in Glasgow Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  32

 32 : COP26_UK308
WEST Midlands Mayor Andy Street hopes to speak at the COP26 environment conference in Glasgow next week - despite being diagnosed with Covid. He will explain how the region plans to meet its target of producing “net-zero” carbon emissions, which contribute to global warming, by 2041. The mayor is to travel to the global event on November 10 and will speak on November 11, after completing 10 days of self-isolation. He tested positive for Covid-19 over the weekend. The United Nations climate change conference, COP26 , brings together almost every nation on earth. National leaders including Prime Minister Boris Johnson are discussing how they can meet a target of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees. but regional and local leaders from across the world are also taking part in the event. Mr Street will deliver a speech in the COP26 United Nations pavilion in which he will talk about the region’s on-going work in building a “zero-emission” transport system. This means the West Midlands public transport network will not produce carbon emissions, which contribute to global warming. As part of this, the mayor will show off two zero-emission trains built in the West Midlands - one powered by an electric battery and another powered by hydrogen. Mr Street said: “The West Midlands was the birthplace of the first industrial revolution, but the advances it brought came at a heavy price for our planet. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  33

 33 : COP22_UK193
October 4, 2016 President Schulz opened the session by calling a minute’s silence for the late Israeli statesman Shimon Peres, whom he praised as a tireless advocate of peace and as a friend of Europe. He also announced that UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon would address Parliament on Tuesday, on the occasion of its vote of consent to the EU’s ratification of the Paris Agreement on climate change. Mr Peres had a vision of a Middle East in which Israel could live together with the Palestinians and its Arab neighbours free from violence. He infused this vision into the Oslo peace accord of 1993 and in 1994 received the Nobel Peace Prize, along with Yitzhak Rabin and Yasser Arafat, for this milestone in the Middle East peace process, noted Mr Schulz. Mr Peres had several times addressed the European Parliament, inspiring it with his charisma, ideas and a simple message: never give up fighting for peace, he added, conveying Parliament’s sympathy to Mr Peres’ family, friends and loved ones, and also to the Israeli people. Paris climate deal: ceremony marking EP consent to EU ratification Next Mr Schulz announced that UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon would address Parliament on Tuesday, before it votes its consent to the EU’s ratification of the Paris Agreement on climate change. President of the UN conference of parties
(COP21) Segolene Royale will also attend. EU ratification would enable the Paris Agreement to enter into force a year after it was struck, in time for the COP22 conference in Marrakesh, and thus enable the EU maintain its leading role in the global fight against climate change, he added. Outgoing MEPs The seat of Jordi Sebasti’e0 (Greens/EFA, ES) is declared vacant as of 10 October. Agenda changes Monday The Thomas report on “How to make fisheries controls in Europe uniform” will be postponed to the October II part-session. Tuesday The vote on a resolution drafted by Giovanni La Via (EPP, IT) on the conclusion on behalf of the EU of the Paris Agreement adopted under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, will be added to Tuesday’s votes.
  34

 34 : COP22_UK225
Text of report in English by South Korean news agency Yonhap on 2 September VLADIVOSTOK, Russia, 2 Sept: President Park Geun-hye arrived in Vladivostok, Russia, on Friday [2 September] to attend an economic forum and a summit with her Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin, as part of her eight-day trip that also includes visits to China and Laos. In the eastern Russian port city, Park will attend the annual Eastern Economic Forum (EEF), a venue to discuss ways to bolster regional cooperation in developing Russia’s resource-rich Far East. Under the main theme, “Opening up the Russian Far East,” the second EEF will bring together some 2,500 participants from 32 countries, including China, Japan and the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). At the forum on Saturday, Park will deliver a keynote speech to put forward her vision for cooperation with Russia in the development of the Russian Far East, her office Cheong Wa Dae said. After the forum, Park will sit down with Putin for a summit to discuss cooperation on an array of issues, including joint efforts to denuclearize North Korea and curb its provocations. The agenda also includes a set of global issues, such as terrorism and climate change. The recent decision by Seoul and Washington to deploy an advanced US antimissile system on South Korean soil is expected to be discussed at the summit, since it has emerged as a source of tension in bilateral relations. During her summit with Putin, Park will likely reiterate that the THAAD deployment is an inevitable, self-defence measure to counter Pyongyang’s evolving nuclear and missile threats, and that it will only target the provocative state, observers said. The South Korean leader is also expected to use the summit to restore trust with Moscow. The bilateral relationship has apparently chilled since Russia’s annexation of Crimea in 2014, which Seoul, in tandem with the international community, maintains breached international law and undermined Ukraine’s territorial integrity. The suspension of the “Rajin-Khasan” project, a three-way logistics scheme involving the two Koreas and Russia, has added fresh tensions to two-way ties. The project got bogged down after Pyongyang’s nuclear test in January and long-range rocket launch the following month. This week’s summit between Park and Putin will be the fourth one. The two leaders held talks on the sidelines of a summit of the Group of 20 (G-20) in Saint Petersburg, Russia, in September 2013; during Putin’s visit to Seoul in November 2013; and at the UN conference on climate change in November 2015. Following Park’s visit to Russia, she will travel to Hangzhou, eastern China, to attend the G-20 summit. The two-day event, slated to begin Sunday, will be held under the main theme, “Towards an Innovative, Invigorated, Interconnected and Inclusive World Economy.” At the summit, Park plans to voice her concerns over the recrudescence of protectionist tendencies and call for more active efforts by the G-20 to expand free trade, Cheong Wa Dae said. From Wednesday to Thursday, Park will attend the South Korea-ASEAN summit, the ASEAN-plus-three summit, which involves South Korea, China and Japan, and the East Asia Summit (EAS), all of which will take place in the Laotian capital of Vientiane. The EAS is a summit that includes the US, Russia, India, Australia and New Zealand, along with the ASEAN-plus-three members. Following the multilateral summits, Park will begin her official visit to Laos, which was arranged on the invitation of Laotian President Bounnhang Vorachith. On Friday, the leaders of South Korea and Laos will hold a summit to discuss trade, investment, development and other areas of mutual concern, the presidential office said. Source: Yonhap news agency in English 1151 gmt 2 Sep 16
  35

 35 : COP22_UK63
November 4, 2016 The Paris Agreement, which has an aim to limit global temperature increase to ‘well-below’ two degrees Celsius, comes into force today, and countries around the world must now start to implement their individual commitments to tackling climate change, known as Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) - an area in which Ricardo Energy & Environment is ideally placed to assist. The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change will meet in Marrakesh, Morocco, next week commencing on 7th November for the 22nd Conference of the Parties ( COP22 ). Ricardo Energy & Environment - which is actively supporting several nations with the implementation of their NDCs - will host a side event at COP22 to provide guidance on the practical steps countries can take to deliver their climate commitments. The session, Driving NDC implementation through sectoral action: lessons learned so far, will be held at 17:00 - 18:30 on Monday 7 November, Oum Errabia - Green Zone, Marrakesh, Morocco. Ricardo’s international experts will be joined by distinguished speakers from the Government of Bangladesh, the Government of Nigeria, GIZ (Deutsche Gesellschaft f’fcr Internationale Zusammenarbeit GmbH), and ICLEI (Local Governments for Sustainability). “The rapid pace at which the Paris Agreement has come into force demonstrates the extent to which governments across the world are committed and driven, in responding to the urgency of climate change,” said Emelia Holdaway, Ricardo Energy & Environment, manager of international climate change policy. “Our side event at COP22 will discuss how early starters are moving forward with NDC implementation and turning their national and sectoral development plans into reality.” Many countries are finding the development of sectoral action plans to be a pragmatic way to drive effective NDC implementation, and empower government ministries and other key stakeholders to take action. The Ricardo Energy & Environment side event will examine the important relationship between sectoral or city actions and the implementation of NDCs. The panel will discuss real world examples of how countries are securing the benefits of sectoral climate action and using this success to embed and mainstream climate action in wider development policy and planning. In the lead-up to the COP22 , Ricardo Energy & Environment and the Climate Knowledge Development Network launched Planning for NDC implementation: a Quick-Start Guide. This new guide, designed at the request of a number of developing countries, provides policymakers at national and local levels with practical guidance on the steps to put their climate commitments into action. To access the Quick-Start Guide and a range of resources on how to balance the complex relationships between economic, societal and environmental requirements and achieve success in NDC implementation, or to find details of the Ricardo side event at COP22 , visit HYPERLINK HYPERLINK COP22 / .
  36

 36 : COP23_UK79
A POPULAR holiday destination for Britons could be gone by the end of the century as it continues to sink due to rising sea levels, as world leaders are called to act at the COP23 conference. Getty The Maldives is rapidly sinking and could be gone in the next 80 years The Pacific Islands contain some of the famous idyllic holiday destinations chosen by Britons for sun and luxury,~ With sea levels rising dramatically in the past few decades, the islands will suffer the most as they eventually become entirely submerged. Tuvalu could be uninhabitable by 2050, with some islands such as Kiribati being completely gone by 2100. The Pacific island nations have urged leaders around the world to act after the COP23 conference in Germany discussed climate change and implementing the 2015 Paris agreement on global warming. The COP23 The Maldives is a famous destination for honeymooners and families, and this is also at risk of completely disappearing. With the lowest elevation in the world and just an average height of four feet above sea level, this too could be gone in the next century. The Solomon Islands have also been affected, with five of them already having completely sunk. New Zealand has become the first nation to create a new visa category for people who live on the islands, and are a product of island displacement. Getty Pacific Islands has warned that many islands are sinking, threatening the homes of many Professor Tim Flannery, a climate change expert at La Trobe University, told news.com.au: “It’s very concerning times, particularly if you live in a small island nation.”Many of those nations are already making agreements to deal with the problem as it develops.” He explained further: “As sea water rises it starts to penetrate the freshwater on the land, that’s the most immediate threat for a lot of the island.”Beach and coastal erosion and flooding is another threat. With these two factors it’s entirely possible within the next 30 years some islands could be rendered uninhabitable.” Getty The Maldives is a popular destination for honeymooners, but may not be around in the next decade They aren’t the only tourist destinations that could disappear within 50 years.~ Rising sea levels are also occurring due to glaciers melting as the planet warms up. The famous Columbia Glacier in Alaska is at risk due to the speed in which it is melting. Related articles UK weather: 2017 could be one of top three HOTTEST years ever recorded Great Barrier Reef DYING: Corals among 62 natural wonders under threat Earth under THREAT: Humans must do THIS to save the planet
  37

 37 : COP21_UK188
Small island countries facing flooding from rising sea levels are closing in on a deal with wealthy countries that would see loss and damage support measures included in the HYPERLINK global climate accord to be finalised in Paris this week . Developed countries have been resisting such a move for more than a year, fearing it could make them liable for billions of dollars in compensation. But Miguel Arias Ca’f1ete, EU climate commissioner, told the Financial Times there was now a growing understanding that loss and damage provisions would be included in the Paris agreement, as long as they did not expose wealthy countries to new claims for compensation. A draft text of the agreement was finalised on Saturday. Mr Arias Ca’f1ete said a meeting that Barack Obama, US president, had with five island leaders last week at the Paris talks, known as COP21 , had helped smooth the way for a compromise on what has become one of the more divisive issues in UN climate talks in recent years. I am very glad that the US is showing flexibility because from the very beginning of this process we have supported this concept of course with adequate language [on compensation], he said. But he added: There is one thing that we do not accept and will not accept in this agreement and that is the notion that there should be liability and compensation for loss and damage. That is a line that we can’ t cross. This is not a US-centric position but it is a position that is important for us. It is still unclear what type of loss and damage measures might make it into the final accord that delegates from nearly 200 nations are due to seal this Friday. The draft text of the agreement called for a climate change displacement co-ordination facility to be set up to relocate people affected by the fierce storms and other extreme weather scientists say is more likely as global temperatures rise. The text also says plans to address irreversible and permanent damage resulting from human-induced climate change should be completed within four years. Island country delegates said they were very pleased wealthy countries were no long rejecting outright the notion that their failure to combat global warming meant extra support was needed for small, poor countries facing a threat to their existence. But James Fletcher of St Lucia, the small Caribbean island state, said the question of how to frame loss and damage support in the Paris agreement was still a stumbling block. We believe we already have avenues for liability and compensation under international law and international agreements, he said. The discussion going on right now is a discussion among lawyers. How do we end up with a text that allays the fears of the US, the EU and other countries that we are creating a mechanism for liability and compensation. And how do you address our concern that we do not give up any rights that we presently already have under international agreements. UN climate talks have been held for more than 20 years without managing to produce the deep cuts in global emissions from burning fossil fuels that scientists say are required to avert dangerous levels of global warming. HYPERLINK Listen to the FT News podcast
  38

 38 : COP25_UK175
new police chief says he wants to engage in a discussion about crime and the challenges facing the force. Chief superintendent Faroque Hussain took office today with two decades of policing experience under his belt. The 42-year-old takes over from previous divisional commander Mark Hargreaves who left the role to take a policing role at the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 26). Woman left with serious injuries following police incident on A77 Mr Hussain was most recently a strategic firearms commander, having previously been an authorised firearms officer and a tactical firearms commander. Chief Superintendent Hussain said:~“I am delighted and privileged to be appointed as the next local police commander for Ayrshire.”I am looking forward to continuing the excellent work and relationships built with local partners and communities across North, East and South Ayrshire by my predecessor chief superintendent Mark Hargreaves. “My priority will be to support our officers and staff ensuring we continue to work hard with our local communities and partners to reduce criminality and help the most vulnerable people across Ayrshire. East Ayrshire Council raise council tax by almost five per cent”I want to engage in a discussion about crime, the challenges facing police and how we will prioritise our activities.” Mr Hussain is married with four children aged between three and 17. In May 2019 he was promoted to chief superintendent, head of analysis, performance, demand and productivity. In this role he oversaw the production of Police Scotland’s three-year strategic assessment and the introduction of outcome focused public performance reporting. Coronavirus: East Ayrshire Council set aside £3600,000 to deal with a deadly virus outbreak Mr Hussain began his police career in Glasgow where he served in uniform as a constable and sergeant. He has served in a variety of detective roles within the organised crime and counter terrorism unit from detective sergeant to detective superintendent. This has included secondments to the British Transport Police in London following the 07/07 atrocities and time with the Home Office providing coaching and training to the immigration service. Mr Hussain has also participated in a number of international leadership events that has seen him visit the Middle East and included participation in the US State Department International Visitors Leadership Program. General IYA Widget Mr Hussain added: “As Sir Robert Peel recognised at the beginning of modern policing in the late 1820s, the rule of law, the tacking of crime and effectiveness of policing depend on the quality of the relationship between the police and public.”As the world changes dramatically I need to ensure this fundamental principle remains central. I want to take this opportunity to acknowledge and thank all of our officers and staff for their continued hard work, professionalism and dedication to the communities of Ayrshire.”
  39

 39 : COP25_UK53
The facility, which will have an initial lithium concentrate capacity of 220,000 tonnes per year, will start producing battery-grade, 6%-lithium spodumene concentrate from June 2021. Capacity will then be ramped up to~440,000 tpy in 2022,~Sigma Lithium’s chief strategy officer Ana Cabral-Gardner told Fastmarkets on January 27. The Brazilian company~operates in Minas Gerais, but the company~has its~headquarters in Canada and listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange. Despite lower lithium prices and cost overruns at many new projects, Sigma Lithium is expected to reveal the results of a global selection process for engineering and procurement services this week, following almost a year of proposal submissions and due diligence. The project’s cash cost of lithium delivered to China on a cif basis is estimated at $342 per tonne. For its base-case scenario, the miner has~calculated an average spodumene price of~$650 per tonne~for 2021. Initially, the plant will produce 33,000 tpy of lithium carbonate equivalent (LCE), which will increase to 66,000 tpy in 2021. LCE widely is used to manufacture rechargeable batteries for electric vehicles (EVs). Fastmarkets most recently assessed the lithium hydroxide monohydrate 56.5% LiOH.H2O min, battery grade, spot price cif China, Japan & Korea at $9.50-11 per kg on January 30, unchanged since January 9, and~at its lowest level since the assessment was launched in August 2017. “Taking into account current output and commissioned projects, supply will not meet expected demand by 2025,” Cabral-Gardner said. “That way, we will either see higher prices for lithium products, or simply watch supply bottlenecks emerge.” Sigma’s concentrate will have theadvantageof being a “green” product, she said,becausethe plant~will use~renewable energy sources,~dry-stack tailings~and recycled water. “That gives us a commercial head start,” she added.~“Clients may not pay a premium for those products, but they most certainly will prefer that kind of material.” Automakers at the end of the value chain, pay special attention to that, according to Cabral-Gardner, because the consumersactivelyseeking out EVs are, in most cases, doing so out of concern for the environment, and car manufacturers know that. For a Brazilian mining company, ensuring operations are environmentally state-of-the-art became even more important after the Brumadinho disaster in January 2019, when a tailings dam at the Vale-operated C’c3’b3rrego do Feij’c3£3o iron ore mine in Minas Gerais collapsed, killing~259 people, with 11 more still~missing. “Wet tailings~are not going to disappear because of the Brumadinho disaster, but it brought the safety bar higher all around the world,” Cabral-Gardner said. “This means some ore deposits may not be able to~[cover the] higher costs of safety, halting their development.” Cabral-Gardner~spoke at the 2019 United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP25 ) about Sigma Lithium’s environmental standards. “Not only the authorities, but investors are seeing the picture case by case, acknowledging higher environmental standards regardless of other events,” Cabral-Gardner said. “Investment funds are uniting globally to push for standardization and better disclosure~[about] tailings dams, and their action has a direct financial impact on miners.”
  40

 40 : COP21_UK311
Wimborne Minster’s Environmental Group (MEG) is bringing polar bears to the Minster Green on Saturday 28th November from 2pm. United Nations Climate Change Conference being held in Paris between 30th November and 11th December. Local people will be invited to sign a petition which will be presented to local MP Michael Tomlinson. A spokesman from MEG said: “We have all heard about climate change and global warming. 2014 was the warmest year since records began in 1880, and nine of the ten hottest years have occurred in the 21st century.”Globally, greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise and this will cause ever higher temperatures. “Polar bears are being threatened by climate change and they are officially classed as ‘vulnerable’. But polar bears are not the only ones who are being affected. The rising temperatures are expected to cause more extremes of weather such as floods and droughts, and these will cause very many deaths amongst the poorest and most vulnerable people throughout the world.”There is still time to reduce these effects, but a co-ordinated global approach will be necessary. This is why the United Nations is holding a Climate Change Conference. The objective is to achieve a legally binding and universal agreement from all the nations of the world.” There will be a prayer vigil in the Minster Crypt for the duration of the Paris talks. For more details, contact Alison Francis on 01202 886938 or e-mail: HYPERLINK mailto:a.m-francis_2@tiscali.co.uk a.m-francis_2@tiscali.co.uk
  41
