 1 : COP26_UK87
Environmental groups have raised concerns about a $500m (£3380m) forest protection deal signed by Boris Johnson at Cop26 , after a damning report into the Democratic Republic of the Congo’s “lawless” logging sector. Johnson signed the letter of intent on behalf of the Central African Forest Initiative (Cafi) for a 10-year agreement which HYPERLINK includes objectives Cop26 At the beginning of April, the DRC government released a long-awaited HYPERLINK audit of the country’s logging industry . It found that six successive ministers had illegally allocated at least 18 logging concessions, breaking a near 20-year moratorium on new industrial felling in the world’s second largest rainforest. More than $3m in royalties has not been paid to the government by operators due to a “chaotic situation”, according to the audit, which marks the first step of the HYPERLINK deal between the DRC and 12 donors Cop26 in Glasgow to unlock $500m to protect the vast ecosystem. Environmental groups have said taxpayer money from the UK, Norway, France and Germany could go to waste if no action is taken on the illegal concessions, with the moratorium on industrial logging due to be lifted at the end of this year. The DRC environment ministry HYPERLINK issued a review of all forest concession contracts after the audit but environmental groups are demanding suspensions and prosecutions of violations. Known as the lungs of Africa, the Congo basin rainforest is home to endangered forest elephants and gorillas and is an enormous HYPERLINK carbon store that HYPERLINK sustains rainfall as far away as Egypt and is home to HYPERLINK an%20ancient%20hunter%2Dgatherer%20lifestyle. about 80 million people Irene Wabiwa Betoko, Congo basin forest lead for Greenpeace, said: “The audit reveals a circus of illegalities, corruption and crimes against the environment. Greenpeace Africa demands a legal investigation of all officials responsible for plundering the rainforest, and, where necessary, the lifting of their parliamentary immunity.” Despite the ban on new industrial logging, the DRC has one of the highest rates of deforestation in the world, losing 490,000 hectares (1.2m acres) of primary rainforest in 2020 , according to Global Forest Watch. Lord Goldsmith, minister for the international environment, visited the region last month after the DRC failed to meet the first step of the Cop26 agreement and publish the audit at the start of January. In a statement, he said his trip was a great opportunity to speak to leaders in one of the most important and biodiversity rich areas of Earth. “The leadership of Congo basin countries at Cop26 was hugely impactful, where big promises were made both by donor countries and Congo basin countries. I am determined that those promises are kept,” he said. Cafi, the coalition of donor countries that made the $500m deal with the DRC, welcomed the release of the audit but said no money had been released yet. In a statement to the Guardian, it commended the publication of the report by the DRC Inspection g’e9n’e9rale des finances on logging concessions and said it would continue to work in collaboration with the DRC government on strengthening forest governance.
“Cafi remains committed to supporting the DRC to help ensure that the objectives and commitments outlined in the 2021-2031 letter of intent are met,” it said. Find more HYPERLINK age of extinction coverage here HYPERLINK lang=en Phoebe Weston and HYPERLINK lang=en Patrick Greenfield on Twitter for all the latest news and features Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  2
 2 : COP25_UK318
Swedish climate-change activist Greta Thunberg has been named Time’s Person of the Year. The 16-year-old has “succeeded in turning vague anxieties about the planet into a worldwide movement calling for global change”, the magazine wrote in its announcement yesterday. In an extended feature, it added: “She is an ordinary teenage girl
who, in summoning the courage to speak truth to power, became the icon of a generation.” Greta set off a wave of protests in opposition to man-made climate change with her Friday school strikes. The Time accolade was announced as she accused world leaders of seeking to burnish their images, rather than taking strong action to curb global warming. Speaking at the UN’s COP25 climate-change summit in Madrid, she said: “The real danger is when politicians and CEOs are making it look like real action is happening, when in fact almost nothing is being done, apart from clever accounting and creative PR.”It seems to have turned into some kind of opportunity for countries to negotiate loopholes and to avoid raising their ambition.” Politicians at the conference are hashing out the implementation of 2015’s Paris Agreement, which is designed to limit warming. On Wednesday, negotiators in Madrid had one eye on Brussels, where the EU announced the European Green Deal - a new plan to slash greenhouse-gas emissions. Svenja Schulze, Germany’s environment minister, said she hoped the deal would “give the discussions here [in Madrid] a boost”. Additional reporting by agencies
  3

 3 : COP21_UK305
India, one of the world’ s largest coal users, will cut back on its investments in the fuel if the new climate deal due to be struck next week in Paris delivers more money to help it shift to cleaner sources of energy such as solar power, a senior negotiator said on Wednesday. We’ ve made it very clear that solar and wind is our first commitment, said Ajay Mathur, director general of India’ s Bureau of Energy Efficiency, at the Paris talks, HYPERLINK known as COP21 . Hydro, nuclear, all of these non-carbon sources are what we will develop to the largest extent we can, he told reporters. But it has to be affordable. He was speaking as campaigners from a fossil fuel divestment movement said the number of investors shunning coal, gas and oil has surged ahead of the Paris conference. At least 500 institutions with more than $3.4tn in assets have pledged to avoid or cut holdings in fossil fuels, said activist groups 350.org and Divest-Invest. That represents a big jump from a year ago, when 181 institutions representing about $50bn in assets were committed to such a step, they said. A spate of city councils, banks, pension funds, churches and universities have pledged to cut back or shun coal investments this year. One of the most striking commitments came last month when Allianz, the German insurance group, said it would pull more than € 4bn ($4.3bn) from companies with coal businesses. Earlier this year, the Norwegian parliament decided the country’ s $857bn sovereign wealth fund should withdraw from any company in which coal represents more than 30 per cent of the business. Both moves came in the wake of a divestment campaign that began on US college campuses more than two years ago in an effort to make fossil fuel holdings as unpopular as tobacco or investments in apartheid-era South Africa. Churches and wealthy individuals with an interest in climate change then joined, including the heirs to the Rockefeller oil fortune. The momentum in this divestment campaign is accelerating day by day, Stephen Heintz, president of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, told journalists at the Paris climate conference on Wednesday. There is a moral imperative to save the planet and to do so we need to end the fossil fuel era now, he said. Benjamin Sporton, chief executive of the World Coal Association said that although the campaigners’ multi-trillion dollar headline figures seemed large, a lot of the institutions and funds with these assets did not currently have coal holdings and the amount of money actually being pulled out of coal was relatively small. While there are companies and funds saying they want to get out of coal, there are plenty of others that are remaining invested, he told the Financial Times. This was especially the case in South East Asia and in large countries such as India, where governments are planning to continue using coal for electricity. Mr Sporton said he hoped the Paris climate talks would help drive the use of technology that allows coal to be burnt more efficiently and cleanly, a chief aim of his members. Coal companies have borne the brunt of the divestment push because coal produces more carbon emissions when burnt than other fossil fuels such as natural gas. But it remains an abundant and cheap source of energy in many developing countries and is the biggest source of electricity globally, accounting for a 41 per cent share of the world’ s electricity, according to the International Energy Agency. That global share is expected to fall to just over 30 per cent by 2030, the agency says, as fast-growing renewable energy sources supply a larger proportion of electricity. However, divestments have not been the only feature of this year’ s assault on coal. Banks have made public their refusal to fund some coal investments. In Australia, where India’ s Adani group wants to build the country’ s largest proposed coal project, Standard Chartered has said it will no longer be involved in the increasingly controversial development. Banks including Deutsche and HSBC had already steered clear. And multilateral commitments to the coal industry have been reined in. Last month member states of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development agreed limits on export subsidies for coal-fired power stations, following unilateral initiatives to curb export credits by countries including the UK and US. But divestment has its critics. Anne Stausboll, chief executive of Calpers, the California state pension system, has called lobbying for divestment flawed and said it is more constructive to engage with companies where the fund invests. However California approved a divestment law in October. Calpers will evaluate divestment as outlined in the bill , the fund said. As of June it had $57m invested in 27 thermal coal companies. Listen to the HYPERLINK World Weekly podcast
  4

 4 : COP21_UK40
Taipei, Taiwan - Delta announced that it joined the ‘Road to Paris’ initiative by the Carbon Disclosure Project and has committed to a 30% reduction in its electricity intensity by the year 2020, which follows a 50% reduction already achieved by the company over the past five years. Delta Electronics will actively participate in a series of events that reflect its commitment to sustainability during the upcoming COP21 . Delta will present its 21 green buildings, which it has constructed over the past 10 years, at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. In addition, Delta will organize a side event, which has been approved by the United Nations COP21 General Secretariat, to share its knowledge and achievements in energy savings and the construction of green buildings. Mr. Ping Cheng, chief executive officer of Delta Electronics, emphasized, ‘Delta has a long-term commitment to sustainability. From 2010 to 2014, we successfully reduced our electricity intensity (electricity use per product value) by 50% compared to 2009 and in the past 10 years we have constructed 21 green buildings. Delta is now enhancing our commitment by engaging in the CDP’s Road to Paris initiative and promising a further 30% reduction in electricity intensity by 2020, and we are expanding our commitment to the whole group.’ Ms. Shan-Shan Guo, chief brand officer of Delta Electronics and executive director of Delta Electronics Foundation, said, ‘Delta is honored to have received permission by the UN COP21 General Secretariat to organize a side event at the Climate Generations areas during COP21 . After 10 years of implementing green buildings, we wish to share our experience by organizing a side event and hosting the ’Delta 21 Green Buildings at COP21 Exhibition’ at the Grand Palais, and show the world the efforts of a corporation that is deeply committed to sustainability.’ Since 2007, the Delta Electronics Foundation has attended the UN Climate Change Conferences annually, and in 2014, it hosted a side event in which Delta introduced their experience on rebuilding the Namasia Elementary School. Over the years, Delta’s efforts to reduce carbon emissions have been recognized by international organizations such as the CDP, which selected Delta for its Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) in 2014-the only company chosen from the Greater China region. For the past five consecutive years, Delta has also been a member of the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) World Index and was a leader in the ICT Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Components in 2015. 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP21 ) will be the most important climate change conference in the past 10 years. We expect the participating countries to reach an agreement to reduce carbon emissions. During COP21 , Delta will use its advanced ‘edge-blending’ projection capabilities to exhibit its entire portfolio of green buildings inside the Grand Palais in Paris, France. The Delta Electronics Foundation will also organize a side event to share Delta’s contributions on green buildings and carbon footprint reduction. Contact: Delta Group 186, Ruey Kuang Road Neihu, Taipei 11491 Taiwan, R.O.C Tel: +886-2-8797-2088 Email: HYPERLINK mailto:news@delta.com.tw news@delta.com.tw [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  5

 5 : COP24_UK86
Text of report entitled “Buhari reiterates commitment to release of Chibok girls” published in English by website of Nigerian newspaper This Day on 5 December President Muhammadu Buhari has reaffirmed the pledge that his government will not rest until the remaining Chibok girls kidnapped by Boko Haram terrorists since April 2014 are safely reunited with their families. According to the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, the president renewed the commitment on Chibok girls in Katowice, Poland at a bilateral meeting with Swiss President Alain Berset on the margins of the UN Climate Change Conference ( COP24 ). COP24 , met with several world leaders and visited the impressive Nigerian pavilion at the climate summit. During his meeting with the Swiss president, the Nigerian leader thanked the Swiss Confederation for its efforts and important role as intermediaries to secure the release of some Chibok girls and assured him that the issue of the remaining kidnapped girls and other abducted persons will remain a “key priority” for the Nigerian government. Buhari and his Swiss counterpart discussed joint strategies to ensure the safe return of the girls, building on the past successes of securing the release of some of the Chibok girls and other abducted persons in the North-eastern part of Nigeria. The president also welcomed the Swiss president’s commitment to continue providing humanitarian assistance to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Nigeria and to ensure the safe release of the abducted schoolgirls. COP24 meeting in Katowice. The president told his Polish counterpart that Nigeria was facing serious climate change challenges, particularly the receding Lake Chad, which is a source of livelihood to some 40 million people living in the region. “Nigeria is totally committed to global efforts to mitigate and adapt to effects of climate change,” the president told the Polish leader, whose country is the president of COP24 . Meanwhile, the president’s bilateral meeting with his Austrian counterpart, Alexander Van der Bellen, focused on the challenges of Lake Chad and what was required to recharge it. Noting that the Lake faced the two challenges of technology and financing, the president told the Austrian leader that enormous financial resources and technology were required to transfer water to Lake Chad from the Congo Basin. Van der Bellen, who indicated his country’s interest to cooperate with Nigeria on recharging the Lake Chad, talked about climate change challenges in Austria, including drought, glaciers melting, among others. The president welcomed the proposal by the Dutch prime minister to visit Abuja soon and promised that the Nigerian government will continue to provide conducive business environment for existing and prospective Dutch investors. On the sidelines of COP24 , Buhari also met with the prime minister of Estonia, Juri Ratas. The prime minister of the Northern European country sought Nigeria’s support on its bid for a non-permanent seat at the UN Security Council for 2020-2021. The two leaders also discussed bilateral cooperation and climate change mitigation. Still in Poland, President Buhari was at the Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial and Museum, in Owicim, where he paid tribute to Holocaust victims. Shehu, who made this known in a separate statement, said after an hour and 10 minutes guided tour of the Museum, devoted to the memory of the victims who died at both camps during World War II, President Buhari penned a hand-written tribute in the visitor’s book, quoting Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar’s famous statement: “The evil that men do lives after them; the good is oft interred with their bones.” He said the president also laid a wreath at Block 11 of the museum, known as the “Death block.” Here, according to an epitaph in the Block: “Male and female prisoners from all parts of the camp complex were held in this building. . . following brutal interrogations, they were in most cases sentenced to death by shooting.” He said later and shortly before leaving the museum, which includes the Nazi concentration camps Auschwitz I and Auschwitz II-Birkenau, President Buhari, fielding questions from State House Correspondents travelling with him, described those fanning embers of discord in Nigeria as “illiterates and ignorant.” Source: This Day website, Lagos, in English 5 Dec 18
  6

 6 : COP22_UK319
Until this year the Moroccan town of Ouarzazate was best known for its ancient-looking kasbah fa’e7ades, used as an exotic backdrop in many Hollywood movies. But now it has a very 21st century landmark: the world’s largest concentrated solar power (CSP) plant. With 500,000 parabolic mirrors, the plant - Noor 1 - has a generating capacity of 160 megawatts - equivalent to that of a conventional single gas turbine power station. It is the first of three CSP plants at the site that will eventually be capable of generating more than 500MW at peak output. Noor is the most high-profile component of Morocco’s ambitious push for renewable energy, which will be showcased when the country hosts COP 22 in Marrakesh. The government has committed to an unconditional 17 per cent reduction in greenhouse emissions by 2030 compared with business as usual, and has adopted a multi-pronged plan combining renewable energy development and improved energy efficiency. Energy independence has been the main impetus for the programme. Morocco lacks significant fossil fuel supplies of its own. However, electricity demand is growing at 5-6 per cent a year as the country pushes its long-term programme to wean its economy off a dependence on agriculture towards industry. In 2009, the state set an ambitious target to produce 42 per cent of its electricity from renewable sources by 2020 - a goal that officials say they are on track to meet. This was then extended last year at the COP21 summit in Paris, when King Mohammed VI announced a new goal of 52 per cent by 2030. The country has received plaudits for both the scale and success of its programme. Michael Taylor, a senior energy analyst at the International Renewable Energy Agency , says Morocco has been helped by factors including strong institutions, funding from bilateral and multilateral agencies and ample supplies of wind and sun. “It’s kind of a confluence of influences that have allowed them to step up early and, of course, they’re reaping the benefits of those renewables now, earlier than others,” he says. Moroccan officials say they can offer lessons for other countries looking to increase their use of renewables. “It’s not just about money. It’s much more a matter of capacity building, technology transfer and the right policies,” says Said Mouline, director-general of the Moroccan Agency for Energy Efficiency (AMEE) . “We have a sustainable environment approach for all sectors. It’s in our constitution and there is will at the highest level of the state.” Over the past seven years this has translated into 54 action plans covering all economic sectors. They go beyond installing renewables to cover agriculture, land use, forestry, waste, and industrial policies. As well as establishing a nascent renewables industry , subsidies on fossil fuels have been phased out and energy efficiency encouraged. “We have a low price in renewables, we have industrial integration, and we have job creation,” says Mr Mouline. The Noor project has caught the attention of energy analysts around the world. The plant uses mirrors that reflect sunlight to heat liquid, which can power a turbine. Unlike onshore wind and solar photovoltaic schemes, CSP plants can store energy in superheated liquid that can be used later to drive turbines. This makes it one of “the key technologies for unlocking those very high levels of renewable power generation,” says Mr Taylor. But it is the project’s funding model has been singled out as one of Morocco’s key achievements. “They’ve been a game changer,” says Anne Lapierre, partner for energy and projects with law firm Norton Rose Fulbright. She was involved in advising Masen, the government agency behind the venture, on the tendering process, which gave it tight control over all aspects of the programme and allowed it to keep costs down. Masen was able to use funds borrowed by the government from multilateral agencies and banks and then lend the money on to the project company. “It was the first IPP [independent power producer] where the bidders were meant to bid fully-financed. So the winning bidder was accessing the financing, which is a total disruption,” Ms Lapierre says. Through Masen, the government also became a minority shareholder in all the project structures. “We had to simplify things as much as possible. The most complicated things can be realised if they are simplified,” Mustapha Bakkoury, head of Masen, told the FT ahead of Noor 1’s launch earlier this year. After a restructuring last year, Masen is now responsible for the development of all Morocco’s renewables. It also has the capacity to invest abroad. Other countries, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, have shown an interest in the country’s approach and Ms Lapierre believes the Noor funding and development model could work as a template for future renewable projects.
  7

 7 : COP26_UK343
The queues were shared on social media by frustrated attendees branding the scenes “utter chaos”, with some blaming the carnage on the onerous United Nations security checks, who have taken over the area for the duration of the COP26 summit. Related articles Thousands of staff from the domestic and international press alongside members of the public can be seen waiting for hours to get into the climate change summit. Taking to social media, the i paper’s political commentator Paul Waugh slammed: “Utter chaos at security for COP26 . It’s not as if they couldn’t plan for this is it?” He added: “Just chatting to some overseas delegates and they joined the queue outside at 9am. Nearly a 90 minute wait outside.” While the the Sun’s political editor Harry Cole tweeted “this is fun” as he shared a picture showing the tailbacks at the summit. JUST IN COP26 He then launched his anger at UN “security heavies trying to stop domestic and international journalists photographing or filming # COP26 queues.” Mr Cole said it was a “really bad look.” While ITV’s Chris Ship hammered: “It’s entirely possibly that the accreditation queue for @ cop26 will take longer than the train journey to Scotland.” But GB News’ Tom Harwood was more chipper as he smugly told followers he had avoided the chaos. READ MORE ‘Just hot air!’ TV host slams global leaders as he demands ‘credible’ climate commitments He tweeted: “If you’re complaining about queues at COP26 you could have always opted to simply not sleep enough and start earlier - worked for me!” COP26 , the international climate change summit in Glasgow, seen as crucial to bringing the climate crisis under control. The goal is to keep warming limited to 1.5C by 2100 despite the the world being currently on track for 2.7C. The UN have warned if temperatures are allowed to rise this high, there will be a “climate catastrophe”. DON’T MISSDalai Lama calls for ‘realistic action’ ahead of COP26 summit [BREAKING] Greta Thunberg’s ‘climate train’ arrives in Glasgow for COP26 [VIDEO] Prince William walking a ‘canny line’ with latest climate pleas [ANALYSIS] Related articles COP26 president and Conservative Minister of State at the Cabinet Office, Alok Sharma, says the summit is the world’s “last, best hope” to achieve the target. Nearly 200 countries are being called on to take urgent action on climate change at the summit. But notable absences of China, the world’s top contributor of CO2 emissions, and Russia, are being branded as setbacks in achieving the aims of the summit. The summit will run from Sunday Octover 31 to Friday November 12. Related articles ‘Hopeful’ Prince William issues personal message ahead of COP26 Hottest years in history are upon us as sea levels reach new high Boris Johnson speech LIVE: PM prepares urgent plea to £ct now’ Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  8

 8 : COP23_UK171
One year after the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on climate change, the Bonn Conference, which opens on 6 November in Germany, will be an opportunity for nations around the world to show their ambition for climate action and their determination to keep their promises. “While Paris represented one of those moments where the best of humanity achieved an agreement so important to our collective futures, Bonn represents how we will move forward to fulfill its promise”, said the Executive Secretary of United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Patricia Espinosa, on the margins of a ministerial meeting in Fiji on 17 October 2017 to prepare for the Bonn Conference of the Convention’s States Parties. “We are running out of time to turn things around. To do so, we must significantly increase our efforts to reduce emissions and our carbon footprints,” she added. The Paris Agreement, which was adopted by the 196 Parties to the UNFCCC in December 2015 in the French capital after which it is named, calls on countries to combat climate change by limiting the rise of global temperature below 2 degrees Celsius and strive not to exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius. A year ago, the Marrakech Climate Conference concluded with the Marrakech Action Proclamation, for our climate and sustainable development, in which the UNFCCC States Parties affirmed their “commitment” to the “full implementation” of the Paris Agreement. Today, 169 Parties have ratified the Agreement. At the Bonn Conference, informally known as COP 23 , countries will seek to move forward in completing the rule book for operationalizing the Paris Agreement. The Conference, which runs until 17 November, is chaired by Fiji, an island State particularly affected by the impacts of climate change. “Never has our work been more necessary. We see this with respect to the extreme weather events affecting almost every continent throughout the world,” said Ms. Espinosa. COP 23 President and Fiji Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama agrees. “We can no longer ignore this crisis. Whether it is fires in California, Portugal and Spain. Flooding in Nigeria, India and Bangladesh. The dramatic Arctic melt. Ice breaking off the continent of Antarctica. The recent hurricanes that devastated the Caribbean and the southern United States [. . . ] It’s hard to find any part of the world that is unaffected by these events”, he said at the ministerial meeting in Fiji. Bonn Conference an opportunity to boost climate risk management efforts In an op-ed published in October 2017, Ms. Espinosa, alongside the Administrator of the UN Development Programme (UNDP), Achim Steiner, and the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Disaster Risk Reduction, Robert Glasser, said the Bonn Conference “provides an opportunity to not only accelerate emission reductions but also boost the serious work of ensuring that the management of climate risk is integrated into disaster risk management as a whole.” A week before the opening of the Bonn Conference, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) announced that the levels of carbon dioxide (C02) surged at
“record-breaking speed” to new highs in 2016. The Bonn Conference will feature a series of meetings and events, including the high-level segment, on 15 November and 16 November, attended by Heads of State and Government, Ministers, and UN Secretary-General Ant’f3nio Guterres. Mr. Guterres has invited leaders to consider championing six high-impact areas at a special Climate Summit in 2019. These areas are investment in clean technology, maturing carbon pricing, enabling the energy transition, risk mitigation and building resilience, augmenting the contribution of sub-national actors and business and mobilizing climate finance. “Increasing ambition is the only way to keep the global temperature rise well below 2 degrees Celsius this century, and as close to 1.5 degree as possible. By focusing on these sectors, we can substantially reduce the gap between where we are and where we need to be,” said UN Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed, at the pre-COP meeting in Fiji. Among the side events scheduled at COP 23 , several will be organized under the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action to show how cities, regions, private sector companies and investors are trying to implement the Paris Agreement in the areas of energy, water, agriculture, oceans and coastal areas, human settlements, transportation, industry, and forests. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  9

 9 : COP22_UK100
THE United Nations came to Cardiff last week when students from across Wales took part in a mock United Nations conference on climate change. Students from across the country joined the debate and represented countries such as Brazil, USA, the Philippines and Saudi Arabia. The conference, run annually by Size of Wales in partnership with Welsh Centre for International Affairs, gives young people an opportunity to discuss the issue of climate change from the perspective of world leaders. Topics discussed ranged from clean energy, protecting rainforests, disaster management and how to finance these. “The conference encourages young people to be more engaged with climate change and political issues” said Janie Pridham, education officer at Size of Wales. “It also helps them develop understanding of other nations and cultures and to consider the responsibility of Wales, both locally and globally.” She added: “The standard of debate was extremely high this year.”It was wonderful to see the students take on their roles in such a realistic way. “Some delegates were quoting Trump and there was even a smear campaign between countries.” The aim of the day was for delegates to agree an international resolution on the issue of climate change, similar to the UN climate change COP22 talks that were held in Marrakesh in November. This year Sophie Howe, the Future Generations Commissioner, joined the event, acting as the secretary general and presiding over teams of three pupils representing 20 countries and organisations. “The bright, engaged young people I met today not only understand the critical point we have reached in terms of tackling climate change but understand that it is they who will be experiencing the positive or negative impact of our actions today.” the Commissioner said. “If we continue to give them a voice and an opportunity to influence, it gives me hope that there is a better future for everyone in Wales and that we will be a nation that makes a positive contribution to global wellbeing.” Size of Wales is a unique initiative which is helping to protect an area of rainforest twice the size of Wales as part of a national response to climate change. MOCKCOP is a highlight in its education programme, which also offers free workshops and assemblies to schools across Wales. The event was sponsored by Jenny Rathbone AM.
  10

 10 : COP23_UK58
ENVIRONMENT campaigner Ewan Jones of Bruton has continued a journey he began in 2015, pedalling on from Paris to the United Nations COP23 climate change conference in Bonn, Germany. In November 2015, Ewan cycled from Plymouth to the previous Paris COP21 conference - delivering reports on more than 3,000 tonnes of carbon saved by the people of Cornwall - via Climate Vision’s ten Carbon Logic Footsteps pledges. This year, Ewan was one of three cyclists to pick up the pedals from Paris, and continue “On2Bonn”. Ewan said: “The COP21 Paris Agreement was rightly hailed as one of the world’s greatest diplomatic successes - as all 196 nations united in committing to limit global tempererature rise to a maximum 1.5C to 2C above pre-industrial levels.”However, the hard work started after Paris. The COP23 Bonn conference is an important step along the road of the world working out, together, ‘how’ we can meet this ambitious target.” Arriving in Bonn after pedalling 600 kilometres across northern France and Belgium’s hilly Ardennes region, Ewan and his two companions united with 2,500 German cyclists to ride into the city, and then joined more than 30,000 people marching to end coal mining in Germany - the biggest climate demonstration the country has ever seen. Ewan said: “We have met cycling teams from countries across Europe, all converging on Bonn by the power in their legs. Three hundred cycled together from Belgium; we met a couple of Frenchmen who had crossed the Alps on a yellow tandem, and there are even two young New Zealanders who have cycled 10,000 kilometres to get here.” Of the upcoming COP23 negotiations in Bonn, he said:
“The two years since Paris have seen political turmoil in Both Britain and America, but those converging on Bonn are demonstrating their commitment to deliver the Paris Agreement regardless of the absence of national leadership.”A total of 383 US Climate Mayors, representing 68 million Americans, have committed to working together to strengthen local efforts for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, regardless of the presence of Donald Trump in the White House. “The EU Committee of the Regions is bringing proposals for Regionally and Locally Determined Contributions that will count towards national carbon reduction plans, meaning the South West of England can deliver our share of the Paris Agreement regardless of Brexit paralysis in Westminster.” COP23 “I love the generosity of Bonn’s vision in hosting COP23 on behalf of Fiji, the first small island developing state to hold the Presidency of a UN climate conference, and hope that our small island state can rediscover broader horizons soon.”
  11

 11 : COP26_UK299
THE COP26 climate summit is due to end today, with negotiators scrambling to salvage a significant deal on reducing global carbon emissions. Cop26 president Alok Sharma yesterday warned “time is running out” in Glasgow for the 180 countries at the summit to agree to a deal. While the summit will officially end today, Boris Johnson indicated negotiations could stretch into the weekend as happened in previous years. China and the US, the globe’s two largest CO2 emitters, on Wednesday agreed to team up to phase out fossil fuels in an unexpected deal. Pundits have said the deal provides hope that China could come to the table and agree to a deal to strengthen commitments made in the 2015 Paris Climate Accord. Sharma said proposals over reducing fossil fuel subsidies and accelerating reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are still crucial stumbling blocks. “Whilst we have made progress we are not there yet on the most critical issues. There is still a lot more work to be done - time is running out,” he said. “As I speak my ministerial facilitators and negotiators are rolling up their sleeves and working hard to find solutions to some of the most intractable issues.” The draft text of the Cop26 deal notes “with serious concern” that existing global agreements are insufficient to keep global warming to 1.5 degrees. The draft, which sets out what negotiators hope will be the outcome of Cop26 , asks countries to “revisit and strengthen the 2030 targets in their nationally determined contributions, as necessary to align with the Paris Agreement temperature goal by the end of 2022”. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  12

 12 : COP21_UK83
- 200 employees have volunteered to drive electric vehicles as VIP shuttles during the COP21 climate change summit - Renault ZOE, Nissan LEAF and Nissan e-NV200 shuttles are powered by renewable and low-carbon energy – without a single drop of petroleum - Delegates, negotiators and media can use a custom-built application to request
EV shuttle service PARIS - Two hundred employees will promote Renault-Nissan’s leadership in electric vehicles while driving EV shuttles during the global summit on climate change in Paris. Employees - who completed a one-and-a half-day training course to become drivers and EV ambassadors - will shuttle VIP negotiators, delegates and media at the 21st annual Conference of Parties (known as COP21 ), from Nov. 29 to Dec. 11. Renault-Nissan Alliance will provide 200 pure electric vehicles for COP21 – the world’s largest electric-vehicle fleet ever to an international conference. The EV fleet, which is comprised of the Renault ZOE, the Nissan LEAF and the Nissan e-NV200, is expected to cover more than 400,000 km in two weeks, fueled with renewable and extremely low-carbon energy – without a single drop of petroleum. Delegates can request an EV shuttle through an online reservation system - HYPERLINK www.cop21evshuttle.com “As soon as Renault-Nissan decided to support COP21 , our employees started asking how they could be directly involved,” said Marie-Francoise Damesin, Renault-Nissan’s global head of human resources. “Helping negotiators get to their meetings, riding in quiet and smooth EVs that can be 100% recharged with renewable and extremely low-carbon electricity, sends a powerful message about our corporate commitment to the environment - and about our employees’ desire to be part of the solution to climate change.” EV Drivers Call to Action In June, the Renault-Nissan Alliance launched a call for volunteers to allow employees in and around Paris the opportunity to be part of COP21 as volunteer drivers. The response was overwhelming, with more than 450 employees applying before the recruitment process was closed. Many of the volunteers drive an EV, and others work directly for Renault and Nissan’s EV programs. Employees selected for the program had to have driver licenses for at least two years, French and English language skills (additional languages preferred), and motivation to promote Renault-Nissan’s EV leadership. Each candidate had to write an essay explaining their interest in the program. “I want to spread the word that EVs are the most pleasant, fun-to-drive, efficient and quiet way to get around,” said Francois-Xavier Lejeune, an engineer from Renault who will drive negotiators during the environmental summit. “A major theme of COP21 is ‘solutions,’ and it’s clear to me that EVs already represent the solution for the transportation sector to become more sustainable.” “I strongly believe all corporations, including mine, should invest in sustainable solutions for the protection of the planet and mankind,” said Marion Lerussard, another volunteer driver who works in the aftersales department of Nissan West in France. In addition to the shuttle service, Renault-Nissan will participate in Solutions COP21 , an international exhibition on climate-change solutions, at the Grand Palais in Paris. The exhibition, which will take place from Dec. 4-10, will feature projects to reduce CO2 from cities, businesses and other organizations around the world. Renault-Nissan will have a multimedia gallery of people who switched from conventional cars to EVs. Renault-Nissan will also give public test drives of EVs along iconic Parisian streets. Click here for a video of Renault-Nissan CEO and Chairman Carlos Ghosn explaining why the Renault-Nissan Alliance has chosen to participate in COP21 and the key role that Renault-Nissan employees will play: ~ HYPERLINK For photos of the Renault-Nissan volunteer drivers, go to: ~ HYPERLINK www.media.blog.alliance-renault-nissan.com/news/5679 ABOUT THE RENAULT-NISSAN ALLIANCE The Renault-Nissan Alliance is a strategic partnership between Paris-based Renault and Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan, which together sell one in 10 cars globally. The companies, which have been strategic partners since 1999, sell one out of two electric vehicles on roads today, including the vehicles featured in COP21 ’s fleet: Renault ZOE subcompact car, the Nissan LEAF compact car and the 7-seater Nissan e-NV200 van. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( ~ HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  13

 13 : COP24_UK72
Belgian police said some 65,000 people participated in the ‘Claim the Climate’ demonstration on Sunday Demonstrators marched through Brussels with banners stating ‘There is no planet B’ and ‘Save our planet’ It came as the COP24 summit began a day early in Katowice, Poland due to high pressure to make progress Tens of thousands of protesters took part in a climate change march on Brussels as a United Nations summit on keeping global warming in check began in Poland. Belgian police said some 65,000 people participated in the ‘Claim the Climate’ demonstration on Sunday. Protesters marched through the Belgian capital near to the European Union headquarters with banners bearing slogans including ‘There is no planet B’ and ‘Climate First, Politics Second’. The organisers of the protest called for ambitious climate policies to limit global warming to one-and-a-half degrees Celsius in line with goals set by the Paris Agreement in 2015. Belgium’s Prime Minister Charles Michel called the march £ formidable success’ and promised to defend the £mbitious targets’ at the two-week-long COP24 conference which began in Katowice, Poland on Sunday. The four former UN climate talk presidents called for action when the 24th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ( COP24 ) prematurely convened. A statement issued by Frank Bainimarama of Fiji, Salaheddine Mezouar of Morocco, Laurent Fabius of France and Manuel Pulgar Vidal of Peru said: ‘Decisive action in the next two years will be crucial. ’What ministers and other leaders say and do in Katowice at COP24 will help determine efforts for years to come and either bring the world closer to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement - including protecting those most vulnerable to climate change - or push action further down the road. ’Any delay will only make it harder and more expensive to respond to climate change.’ Negotiators at the conference, which is said to be the most crucial on climate change since the 2015 Paris Agreement, decided to open talks ahead of Monday because they are under pressure to make progress. Some 29 heads of state and government are due to give statements over the two-week-long summit of 200 nations. This is less than the number who attended the Paris Agreement talks in 2015
- but for the EU and China, the meeting is crucial to proving international co-operation is possible in the age of President Trump. Sir David Attenborough will represent millions of people across the world who are affected by climate change when he takes the ‘people’s seat’ at the conference. He will give a speech to politicians on the opening day of the summit, with takes place from December 2 to December 14, made up of comments submitted by the public. It is likely much of the conference will be focused on finalising exactly how the conditions of the Paris Agreement will work when it becomes operational in 2020. The agreement, signed by 195 UNFCCC members, has a central aim to ‘strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change’ by keeping a temperature increase this century below two degrees. It also firmed plans to pursue efforts to limit the temperature rise even further to just one-and-a-half degrees Celsius. The COP24 summit is the first Conference of the Parties since an Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report detailed how governments would need to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases by 45 per cent by 2030 to reach this goal.
  14

 14 : COP24_UK320
1 MOVIES In which film did Pierce Brosnan make his James Bond debut? 2 MUSIC Which Geordie actress is the mother of Matty Healy, the frontman of The 1975? 3 TV & RADIO What is the surname of Robert Bathurst’s character in ITV’s Cold Feet? 4 LEISURE In which game do Europe and the United States compete for the Mosconi Cup? 5 GEOGRAPHY The town of Nazareth is in which Middle East country? 6 SCIENCE In which part of the human body is the tensor tympani muscle found? 7 ART & LITERATURE Which author wrote the book The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde? 8 CELEBRITIES Which footballer, who won 114 England caps, married Alex Curran in 2007? 9 WORDS What does the H in HS2 stand for? (a) Heavy (b) Hourly (c) High 10 BRITAIN In the British Isles, which nobleman ranks between a duke and an earl? 11 THIS YEAR Earlier this month, which Polish city hosted the United Nations Climate Change Conference ? 12 POT LUCK How many sides of equal length does an isosceles triangle have?
  15

 15 : COP24_UK219
The funny thing is, IT - you know, IT - is not even the biggest story. Nor are the riots in France by the Gilets Jaunes. That title goes to Sir David Attenborough. Fear not, he’e2(EURO)(TM)s not just backed the Mussolini for Uxbridge and South Ruislip, Boris Johnson. As I say, that’e2(EURO)(TM)s not really the big story. Instead, the real tale is about climate and our survival. For many years, people in the green movement urged him to speak about the scientific fact of climate change in more newsworthy terms. He resisted on the grounds people had heard enough of disaster, and it had become a turn-off. This is something the green movement knew itself - the 1980s blitz of apocalyptic headlines around the newly discovered hole in the ozone layer had bumped up eco issues on the political agenda, but has also made people doubt it was quite that bad. Being told the end of the world is nigh is both very alarming and a bit dull without calamity to prove the point. By the 1990s, the green movement was trying to move away from ’e2(EURO)oeWe are all doomed’e2(EURO) to more-manageable ideas such as recycling. The drama of Greenpeace driving speedboats at whaling ships or oil platforms had worn off - though quite why the greens were to blame for the tropes of 24-hour news media was not entirely clear. Eco activists knew they had to play the media, but struggled with the fact that all their policies, and many of the threatened outcomes, were of an astonishing scale. They had to take huge stories and make them look small. Attenborough, a thoroughly neutral figure, which makes him the best politician for the early 21st Century, had resisted tales of eco disaster. Instead of shouting gloom through the screen, he showed us the world in a detail we’e2(EURO)(TM)d never seen. His documentary truth was greater than any sermon - he cut through prejudice about eco issues by showing life as it was. This year was the year he changed, and the debate changed because of it. The nice man who whispers about animals is the one now telling us we face catastrophe. We are the livestock in the background. ’e2(EURO)oeRight now we are facing a man-made disaster of global scale, our greatest threat in thousands of years - climate change,’e2(EURO) Sir David told a conference in Katowice, Poland. ’e2(EURO)oeIf we don’e2(EURO)(TM)t take action, the collapse of our civilisations and the extinction of much of the natural world is on the horizon. The human brain appears programmed to deny endings. We know we are going to die, for example, but that diagnosis always surprises. We imagine pain happens to others, and death isn’e2(EURO)(TM)t for us. So with the planet, nobody thinks it’e2(EURO)(TM)s going to happen to their Earth. Attenborough is trying to tell us that, like cancer, like heart disease, like the inevitable business of death, just because climate change is not catastrophic yet, it will happen. Not the end of the world - but the end of the human world. The planet will spin, nature will continue. It’e2(EURO)(TM)s only our version that will no longer exist. Our star, among a billion others, will still be in the universe, but we may not. COP24 ). ’e2(EURO)oeThe world’e2(EURO)(TM)s people have spoken. Time is running out. They want you, the decision-makers, to act now. Leaders of the world, you must lead. ’e2(EURO)oeThe continuation of civilisations and the natural world upon which we depend is in your hands,’e2(EURO) he implored. COP24 effectively ends today, the delegates gone and the declarations signed. The World Bank has doubled its budget for climate projects to $200 billion, the German Government are to spend more on green matters, and success stories about nations cutting CO2 emissions have been shared. However, the most authoritative report on the world’e2(EURO)(TM)s climate was not adopted. The United States, Russia, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia objected to the IPCC report, which says the world has missed the target of 1.5’c2’b0C warming and is now heading for 3’c2’b0C above the average for the past few millennia. The political rejection was odd, given the report had been commissioned by COP21 in 2015. The study concludes ’e2(EURO)oerapid, far-reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society’e2(EURO) are needed if we are to avert disaster. Political populism feeds off resistance to
’e2(EURO)oerapid’e2(EURO) change. Notoriously, Donald Trump pulled the USA out of the Paris Agreement of 2015, and has since mocked other nations for playing the green game. He advocates coal-powered energy production and industry, knowing this to be a major source of CO2. Those Paris riots are driven by people angry at increased fuel prices - which France has had to delay. And quite what Brexit does for the most important issue of the age is not clear. Thank Earth for Sir David, and reject populism.
  16

 16 : COP23_UK149
US President Donald Trump is not invited to a climate change summit to take place in Paris later this year “for the time being”. An official in French President Emmanuel Macron’s administration told Reuters that the US has “a bit of a special status for that summit.” The US has begun the official withdrawal process from the Paris Agreement, the global accord signed by nearly 200 countries in December 2015 that attempts to curb greenhouse gas emissions and limit global warming rise to 2C. Read more What to expect from the UN’s latest climate talks The withdrawal would only be eligible to take effect on 4 November 2020 per the rules outlined in the agreement, just days before the next presidential election. Climate change might be worse than thought after scientists find major mistake in water temperature readings The day of the announcement in June of this year, Mr Macron and leaders from Germany and Italy banded together to say in a statement that despite Mr Trump being open to changing the Paris Agreement, it could not ” be renegotiated since it is a vital instrument for our planet, societies and economies.” Over a thousand American governors, mayors, and CEOs also said they would stick with the commitments outlined in the accord as well. In the months following, the Trump administration and Environment Protection Agency (EPA) has dismantled key legislation like the Clean Power Plan, which would have reduced US power plants’ carbon emissions by 2030 to a level 32 per cent lower than they were in 2005 and help achieve goals in the accord. US officials will likely still be invited to the 12 December summit but not at the presidential level. Read more Prince Charles accused of ‘conflict of interest’ over climate lobbying Syria signs Paris Agreement leaving US only country to refuse deal Trump’s Scottish golf course ‘faces flooding’ due to climate change The US remains the only country not in the Paris Agreement after previous holdouts Nicaragua and Syria have joined the rest of the world. A delegation of 48 people is attending the United Nations climate change negotiations ( COP23 ) in Bonn, Germany taking place from 6 November to 17 November and will be promoting the use of fossil fuels.
  17

 17 : COP23_UK122
On 22 April 2016, 174 countries signed the Paris Agreement, drawn up at the United Nations Climate Change Conference (Cop 21), to limit global warming to less than 2°C. The signatories also promised to pursue efforts to curtail the temperature increase to 1.5°C. Some scientists believe that this will require zero carbon emissions between 2030 and 2050. One way to achieve this is to move away from using coal to generate power towards renewables, which do not produce greenhouse gasses. Asset managers have clearly taken this on board. Many have set limits on investing in companies that earn a certain percentage of their revenues from coal mining or generating power by burning coal. Others have taken a bolder stance. Austrian group Erste Asset Management, for example, has banned managers on all its funds from investing in securities which derive more than 30% of their revenues from the coal mining industry. In its sustainable funds, this limit is as strict as 5%. Dominik Benedikt, a senior ESG analyst at the Vienna-based group, says Erste set the 30% limit by looking at guidelines drafted by institutional investors and analysing companies’ balance sheets. He believes investors should look closely at how a company defines its dependence on coal. ’ When you exceed 30% you go up fairly quickly in terms of coal revenues. When you go below that, it drops off quite fast as well. For us 30% is the sweet spot,’ Benedikt says. ’ An integrated utility, that generates power from coal and distributes that energy, may say that only 50% of its revenue comes from burning coal, while the other half comes from distribution. But you could still say that ultimately, 100% of its revenue stems from burning coal,’ he says. Benedikt also believes coal is a bad investment from an economic view. ’ Many listed coal mines in China are operating with negative profit margins, as at least a third were loss-making in 2016. At some stage even the most convinced coal miner will have to admit that this might not be the best way forward,’ he says. Steffen Hoerter, global head of ESG at Allianz Global Investors, agrees. ’ Research shows that photovoltaic and wind are already comparatively cheaper per kilowatt hour of power generation than coal-fired utilities. Other analysis claims that any new coal-firing power utility is already a dead asset from an economic perspective,’ Hoerter says. Fuel for thought So, if investors divest out of coal, where can they put their money instead? ’ You should think about what you want to support. If you assume climate change is real and you want contribute to financing the transition to a low carbon economy, you have to have a view on reinvestment. For example green bonds or renewable infrastructure,’ Hoerter says. However, it is not always a straightforward switch from coal to renewables. Benedikt says investors need to remember the unstable performance of energy stocks, regardless of their environmental impact. ’ Unfortunately renewables can still be comparatively volatile investments, it depends on the investment horizon. In the short term, it can be an aggressive play. In the long term, we think it’s the place to be. ’ Energy is cyclical by definition. Even if you forego renewables and invest in oil & gas, you still have substantial volatility. For example, European oil majors have risen quite a lot recently, but they had been badly hit in the past,’ Benedikt says. Smooth transition Robert De Guign’e9, head of socially responsible investing at Lombard Odier Investment Managers, warns that investors cannot simply stop investing in traditional energy providers. Lombard Odier currently excludes coal miners or companies which derive 20% of their energy from burning coal. ’ We want to go through the energy transition the smart way. If we decide to disinvest from all types of traditional power generation, we will never reach the Cop 21 targets, because we need to go smoothly down that route. ’ We will still need some gas and oil, as well as other types of energy sources by 2050. We can’t just pull out our investments all of a sudden because these companies are part of the transition towards a low carbon economy,’ De Guign’e9 says. He adds that, like any investment, you need to do your homework. Companies can put out all the statements they want but it’s the numbers that count. ’ Greenwashing is part of company behaviour. Our methodology tries to identify green washers to see how they are implementing their policy. Is it just through marketing, are they really taking action and is their ESG policy having an impact? ’ Our process allows us to spot a company which may have a high score in terms of marketing but poor results in practice. In that case there’s a good chance you’re dealing with a greenwasher,’ De Guign’e9 says.
  18

 18 : COP26_UK20
On March 24, the British Embassy Ashgabat was delighted to organise an online conference in Ashgabat, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Turkmenistan and the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator in Turkmenistan. The conference focussed on the outcomes and achievements of last year’s COP26 climate summit in Glasgow and was an opportunity to generate new ideas and improve cooperation to take forward the Glasgow Climate Pact. The conference was a continuation of the high-level roundtable that the British Embassy held in March 2021 in Ashgabat, ahead of the COP26 . Building on the momentum and direction set out at COP26 , representatives discussed the best ways to deliver stronger sectoral action to accelerate Turkmenistan’s transition to a low-carbon, more resource-efficient and sustainable economy. The conference helped international partners and donors better understand plans the Turkmenistan government has for decarbonisation and reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. These plans are outlined in the final draft of their new NDC, as part of their commitments under the Paris Agreement. Participants from both the UK and Turkmenistan announced new climate change initiatives between national and international partners. Those attending the event included representatives of the ministries of Turkmenistan, the UN agencies, foreign diplomatic missions, international organisations and development partners, financial institutions, university students and others. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Turkmenistan moderated the event. The Turkmen Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment Protection announced that the country’s next set of climate change plans would soon be submitted to the UN. These plans include projects to reduce both carbon dioxide and methane emissions. UN agencies pledged to continue working with Turkmenistan to address challenges of mapping emissions, changing legislation, provide technical assistance and support education. Nick Bridge, the British Foreign Secretary’s Special Representative for Climate Change, stressed the need to go clean and green and deliver on our promises faster. Kenan Poleo, the UK’s Trade Commissioner for Central Asia, highlighted that change can support growth - in the last 30 years the UK has cut emissions by 44% while growing its economy 78%. The British Ambassador, Lucia Wilde, reaffirmed the Embassy’s commitment to support both the implementation of climate change policies and support for Turkmenistan to introduce more green energy technologies. Star speakers at the conference were youth representatives who talked of the need for action to ensure their future health, prosperity and well-being. Participants identified joint priorities and new areas of climate cooperation in the run-up to COP27. Climate change and increasing greenhouse gas emissions negatively affects the health and well-being of people and countries around the world. As such, experts at the event agreed that it is important to learn from each other and continue a productive dialogue and exchange of professional experience in this important area. At the end of the conference, experts and participants thanked the organisers and highlighted how important it was to continue these discussions in order to help the transition of Turkmenistan to a green economy. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  19

 19 : COP21_UK202
Text of report by Karachi-based moderate, privately-owned Express Tribune newspaper website Islamabad: As formal diplomacy failed to break the impasse in Pakistan-Afghanistan relations, Pakistani Pashtun political leaders have convinced Afghan President Ashraf Ghani to meet Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, Afghan media reported on Saturday. Relations between the two neighbours hit the lowest ebb after Kabul blamed Islamabad for an upsurge in Taliban violence that followed a bitter leadership row in the orthodox militia triggered by the confirmation of the death of its longtime leader Mullah Omar in July, this year. Kabul urged to bridge trust gap with Pakistan The delegation discussed bilateral relations, and peace and security in the region, according to private Pajhwok news agency. “President Ghani has accepted the invitation to meet Nawaz Sharif,” it quoted an unnamed official as saying. The delegation comprises Awami National Party President Asfandyar Wali, Pashtoonkhwa Milli Awami Party chief Mehmood Khan Achakzai and Qaumi Wattan Party leader Aftab Ahmed Khan Sherpao. Former Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa governor Shaukatullah Khan and former ambassador Ayaz Wazir are also accompanying them. Though there is no official word on when and where the two leaders will meet, there are indications the meeting might take place in Paris on the on the sidelines of the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference , COP 21 or CMP 11. The conference will begin on November 30 and continue until December 11. Ashraf Ghani seeks Pakistani Pashtun leaders’ assistance Pakistan’s Foreign Ministry spokesman said he has no knowledge of any scheduled meeting between Ghani and Nawaz. “No such meeting was scheduled until the departure of our delegation from Islamabad,” Qazi Khalilullah told The Express Tribune when asked about the Afghan media reports. Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, who is currently in Malta for the Commonwealth Summit, will attend the opening ceremony of the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris on Monday, according to Minister for Climate Change Zahid Hamid. The Afghan media reports came after China’s ambassador in Kabul reportedly conveyed a message from the Chinese leadership to the Afghan government, advising President Ghani to attend the ministerial meeting of the Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process in Islamabad on December 8. Ghani had attended the group’s last meeting in Beijing in 2014. The conference will focus on peace and economic development in Afghanistan. The Chinese special envoy for Afghanistan Deng Xijun told The Express Tribune earlier this month that Beijing wanted Pakistan and Afghanistan to sit down and remove bilateral differences through talks. Deng met the Pakistani and Afghan leaders during his first visit to both the countries. Afghan minister to attend JEC huddle Pajhwok reported that earlier there was a proposal from British Prime Minister David Cameron that Nawaz and Ghani meet in Paris, however, the latter did not agree. “Consequently, Pakistan has sent the Pashtun leaders to Kabul to persuade Ghani [for the meeting],” according to the report. The delegation of Pashtun leaders met President Ghani, his predecessor Hamid Karzai and other Afghan officials, and participated in a reference in the memory of veteran Pashtun nationalist leader Afzal Khan Lala, who passed away earlier this month in his hometown of Swat. Asfandyar had met Premier Nawaz before leaving for Kabul on Thursday. Source: Express Tribune website, Karachi, in English 29 Nov 15
  20

 20 : COP21_UK217
Click here for full-size image epa05049117 US President Barack Obama (L) greets Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff (R) during the family photo during the COP21 , United Nations Climate Change Conference , in Le Bourget, outside Paris, France, 30 November 2015. The 21st Conference of the Parties ( COP21 ) is held in Paris from 30 November to 11 December aimed at reaching an international agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions and curtail climate change. EPA/MARTIN BUREAU / POOL MAXPPP OUT IMAGE ID: EPALIVE926798 HYPERLINK Subject to copyright. Click here for information regarding redistribution of this image.
  21

 21 : COP23_UK88
Chemical Leasing is just one example that it is possible to raise sustainability even within difficult sectors, experts stated at the UN’s climate conference Cop23 this week. By Sarah Katz ‘It is clear that there is an urgent need to decouple growth from consumption of resources’. This was one of Joachim Schmidtkes, Director, Ramboll Environment & Health, main conclusions at a side event on the sidelines of Cop23 Wednesday afternoon. Here, a dedicated group of professionals from industry, government and private sector gathered to discuss innovative solutions for circular economy and sustainability. In order to move from traditional product cycles to circular ones, the notion of moving from a production model to a performance based model was introduced. Petra Schwager, UNIDO, said:’ In chemical leasing, you don’t pay for the product itself - rather you pay for the benefit of the product. This means a move from a production model to a performance-based model’. Steffen Secher, founder and director of SafeChem, was a strong example of just this. He introduced his solution for enabling chemical leasing as an alternative to the traditional purchase in e.g. retailing: ‘It is chemical leasing in practice, and introduces a new paradigm for sustainability. While sales of chemicals decline, sustainable chemicals solutions increase’. Collaboration is key When it comes to business-to business, the experiences so far show that support and engagement with heavy weight actors such as Ikea, Carrefour and Tesco have worked. Dr. Susanne Czech, Director General, EU, gave examples such as vertical, in-store herb farms and recycling plants, and concluded: ‘More ambition and greater collaboration can help us in the transition to the circular economy’. However, Dr. Branko Dunji pointed to the fact that public legislation can also be necessary: ‘Government involvement is important, even though you can make a lot of progress working with industry alone.’ As a follow-up to the workshop, Ramboll will be producing a publication with main conclusions and findings. Contact: Joachim C. Schmidtke Tel: +49 089 978970100 Email: HYPERLINK jschmidtke@ramboll.com [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  22

 22 : COP21_UK21
On the third day of the United Nations climate change conference ( COP21 ), dubbed ‘Resilience Day,’ the UN and the Governments of Peru and France have announced major international partnerships that are mobilizing large-scale financing to protect people who are most vulnerable to climate impacts. These initiatives are taking place under the Lima to Paris Action Agenda (LPAA), launched one year ago at the previous climate change conference in Peru, and aims to strength climate action beyond COP21 . “Resilience is really important because the climate is already changing, and we need to be able to not just adapt to the changes but actually develop in a way that takes into account that in the future, climate will still change,” Janos Pasztor, the UN Assistant Secretary-General on Climate Change, told the UN News Service in an interview at the conference site in Paris.
“Even if we stop all the emissions today, there are already enough greenhouse gases in the atmosphere that the climate will continue to change,” he continued. “So we need to adjust our development process, adjust our economic approach [. . . ] and be more resilient to future changes that will happen.” Bold announcements were made at COP21 today, which was dedicated to building more resilient societies and economies. According to the UN, extreme climate already impacts hundreds of millions of people every year, undermining or destroying their livelihoods, their homes and their environment. The Rockefeller Foundation estimates that over the last 30 years, one dollar out of every three spent on development has been lost as a result of such recurring crises, a total loss of $ 3.8 trillion dollars worldwide. In contrast, resilient societies and economies suffer less and recover more quickly from such natural disasters. “Resilience-it is very important when we talk about climate change and its consequences,” Manuel Pulgar-Vidal, Peru’s Minister of the Environment, told the UN News Service. “When we talk about resilience, we are talking about how can we resist [. . . ] and avoid negative consequences to our human population,” he explained.
“To the wildlife, to the habitat, to the ecosystems, to the water, to the ocean-that is why we have the ‘Resilience Day.’ If climate change is going to bring us natural disasters, we should have the objective of resilience as a way to face those kinds of consequences.” Meanwhile, the UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR) today launched a new ‘Climate Risk Early Warning System,’ (CREWS), while the governments of Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands agreed to give more than $ 80 million dollars to equip up to 80 countries with better systems to support countries most vulnerable to climate disasters. The plan was first proposed in March by France’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Laurent Fabius at the Third UN World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction in Sendai, Japan. “Climate related disasters cause human losses and dramatic economic losses each year,” said France’s Secretary of State for Development Annick Girardin. “We will first help the most exposed countries among [Least Developed Countries] and Small Island States which will be most at risk as the frequency and severity of such hazards are expected to increase in this part of the world,” she added. News from COP21 also included the announcement from a broad coalition of nations, river basin organizations, business and civil society of the creation of the international Paris Pact on Water and Climate Change Adaptation to make water systems - considered the very foundation of sustainable human development-more resilient to climate impacts. Almost 290 water basin organizations are reportedly engaged under this new Pact. They say without improved water resources management, the progress towards poverty reduction targets, the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and sustainable development in all its economic, social and environmental dimensions, will be jeopardized. According to a press release issued by the main actors of the LPAA, many other initiatives launched on
‘Resilience Day’ covered the “full spread of peoples’ needs” as they face increasing climate impacts.” (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  23

 23 : COP24_UK98
HYPERLINK Climate change is likely to push Europe’s critically endangered ~ HYPERLINK eels even closer to extinction, a new study have revealed. Populations have been in freefall for decades due to a combination of overfishing, pollution and dams being constructed along rivers, blocking their traditional migration routes. Numbers of the once abundant HYPERLINK fish have dropped by over 90 per cent since the early 1980sand now rising temperatures and acidic waters are posing yet another existential threat. A new study conducted by scientists in Portugal tested the impact of the rising global temperatures on the survival and behaviour of young eels. These
“glass eels” - so-called due to their transparent bodies - were placed in different conditions to see how they would respond to a temperature increase of 4Cand more acidic water, mimicking the environments expected under climate change by the end of the century. When placed in warmer water, fewer of the young eels survived, but those that did were more active and appeared more willing to continue their migration. This was countered by the impact of the acidic water, which appeared to dampen the eels’ innate desire to migrate towards freshwater. This resultechoed previous studies showingacidic water harming the sensory abilities of fish. Publishing their findings in the Biology Letters journal, the scientists said they had revealed how near future conditions could soon trigger unexpected and unwelcome changes in eel populations. “If greenhouse gases emissions to the atmosphere continue unabated and further conservation management policies are not considered in the near future, these stressors may, indeed, cause stocks disruption and push eels towards extinction,” said Dr Tiago Grilo, one of the scientists at the Marine and Environmental Sciences Centre behind the study. Read more Eels are getting high on cocaine in Britain’s drug-polluted rivers Dr Reinhold Hanel, an eel expert at the Thunen Institute in Germany who was not involved in the study, said he “fully agreed” climate change is impacting eels. He added that the new study supported previous work suggesting climate change was harming the eels by tampering with ocean currents along their migration routes or the Sargasso Sea where they spawn. However, he also noted that for fish that travel more than 4,000 miles simply to reproduce, crossing both fresh and saltwater as they do, climate change was just one of many pressures on these vulnerable creatures. Sir David Attenborough at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Katowice: Climate change ‘our greatest threat’ Samuel Stone, head of fisheries and aquaculture at the Marine Conservation Society, said the research was a reminder of the “dire need” to recover depleted fish stocks. “We are already seeing impacts of climate change on marine species and far more needs to be done to account for this in fisheries management,” he said.
  24

 24 : COP22_UK73
The General Assembly of the Church of Scotland has voted to allow its ministers to be in same-sex marriages. The gathering, which opened in Edinburgh today, voted in favour of extending a law passed last May that permits ministers to be in same-sex civil partnerships. The outcome follows years of deliberation on the issue within the Church. The decision means the Kirk adopts a position which maintains a traditional view of marriage between a man and woman, but allows individual congregations to ‘’opt out” if they wish to appoint a minister or a deacon in a same-sex marriage or a civil partnership. Any wider consideration of the theological understanding of same-sex marriage will not take place until the Theological Forum presents its report to the Kirk next year. More than 850 commissioners from across Scotland, the rest of the UK, Africa, Asia, North America, Europe, the Middle East and the Caribbean have registered to attend this year’s assembly, which began with a formal ceremony attended by Scotland’s First Minister Nicola Sturgeon. The opening saw the appointment of a new Moderator. The Right Rev Dr Angus Morrison stood down from his 12-month role and was replaced by the Rev Dr Russell Barr, the founder of Edinburgh-based homelessness charity, Fresh Start. Dr Morrison said he felt a “sense of gratitude, relief and heartfelt appreciation” as he left the post. Dr Barr said his predecessor was a “great ambassador for the Church of Scotland”. “This international crisis requires a compassionate and generous response and we are pleased that in keeping with your priority to serve the poorest and most vulnerable, you are making such a valuable contribution.” United Nations climate change conference in Paris last year.
  25

 25 : COP24_UK52
GENEVA, Switzerland – The Portfolio Committee on Environmental Affairs is satisfied with South Africa’s preparations for the 24th Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC COP 24 ) that is scheduled to be held from 2 to 14 December 2018 in Katowice, Poland. Today the committee received an update on the current status of the negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and progress on the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The committee is also pleased that the country has set key priorities stemming from the Paris Agreement where the South African leadership played a critical role. Priorities such as enough mitigation ambition to avoid dangerous human-made climate change, to have enough international financial, technology and capacity building support to make the whole system work and to have effective transparency to build trust and share experiences. These priorities are critical in ensuring that as a country, South Africa plays its part in participating globally in fighting climate change. The Chairperson of the committee remarked that the Katowice climate change negotiations are very critical in the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The Katowice COP 24 is mandated to adopt the Paris Agreement Work Programme, which should set out the mechanism for the full implementation of the historic Paris Agreement and for this reason, it is the committee’s wish that the global climate negotiations succeed for the sake of humanity. The committee has noted the alarming report of the scientific advisory body to the UNFCCC, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) which confirms that it is now evident more than ever before, that climate change is currently the greatest threat to humankind and that dramatic changes by all countries are urgently required in order to limit global warming to 1.5’b0C. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Republic of South Africa: The Parliament. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  26

 26 : COP23_UK92
September 4, 2017 DAO IPCI protocol aiming at global green economy blockchainization has announced the presale of Mitigation Token (MITO) starting September 11, 2017. Green finance markets are gaining momentum across the globe providing economic solution to environmental and climate crisis. Carbon market for example is projected to become largest commodity market valuing at $ 10 trillion. However, existing initiatives are highly fragmented. Mitigation Token was designed to unite global green finance markets by acting as exchange vehicle allowing to monetize all types of environmental assets. MITO is based on the DAO IPCI protocol that has been in place since early 2017 pioneering the world’s first carbon credit transaction on blockchain. DAO IPCI international team was officially invited to the UN Climate Change Conference COP23 where its detailed proposal to blockchainize the Paris Agreement will be studied. Initial Coin Offering of MITO will be announced in November at one of COP23 events. By participation in MITO presale, you will help to establish a Swiss-based international NGO aiming at accelerating green economy by further development of a universal framework for easy monetization of clean technologies and mitigation programs. DAO IPCI public blockchain ecosystem will grow with the booming green economy, which is recognized globally as a key to Planet’s sustainable future. Anton Galenovich, DAO IPCI Team Leader: “The platform developers’ idea is to providecommon space for fair competition, provide early crediting, offsetting carbonfootprint opportunities for the companies, and break the barriers dividing marketand types of high quality mitigation outcomes. We owe thefuture to our children, and we can contribute to it on our own free choice now, track our contributions and even benefit”. Sergey Lonshakov, DAO IPCI Lead IT Developer: “DAO IPCI is an example of the correctand logical use of the public blockchain technology. Global scale project cannot have centralized hierarchy, which is why here the decentralization technology is ideally applicable. Initial MITO emission would bring blockchain R&D and implementation to a new level”. Contacts: HYPERLINK mailto:info@ipci.io info@ipci.io HYPERLINK ~ view_as=subscriber view_as=subscriber Other: ~ HYPERLINK / ~ HYPERLINK / ~ HYPERLINK / ~ HYPERLINK Other: For more information regarding media usage, ownership and rights please contact DAO IPCI. Distributed by ~ HYPERLINK
  27

 27 : COP26_UK116
While many will celebrate the inclusion of tackling coal and fossil fuels for the first time in a COP final decision, others have pointed to the stark reality that COP26 did little to change the trajectory of expected global warming of 2.4’baC by 2030. Current national plans to cut emissions, if implemented, fall short of ambitions to ’limit global warming to “well below 2’baC, ideally 1.5’baC, since pre-industrial times”. Despite a heightened awareness of the need to address climate change globally, only one of the world’s major emitters, India, produced new Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) at the conference, with the emphasis for enhanced national ambitions seemingly pushed for following years. Under the guidelines of the Paris Agreement, nations are only required to set new NDCs every five years. An original roadmap set out a vision that this would occur in 2025, with the focus at that time being on actions beyond 2030. However, estimations are that current NDCs will be inadequate to limit global warming to the required level, with a 2.4’baC rise predicted by 2030 on the current trajectory. While calls for fresh NDCs to be produced in Glasgow were largely ignored, some progress was achieved in ensuring that NDCs have been put on the agenda for COP27 in Egypt and COP28 in 2023. “While not as ambitious as most would have hoped, the inclusion of a phase down commitment still represents significant progress.” Importantly, there now appears to be a greater unison between leading nations on what the global temperature rise limiting target should be. Some nations had argued that an aim of 1.5’baC would be a rewrite of the Paris Agreement’s actual commitment. At COP26 , however, nations such as the US and the UK emphasised that the “well below 2’baC” target must be sought, an ambition largely agreed by participating nations. Coal Coal took centre stage as both the biggest achievement and potentially biggest disappointment of COP26 Climate reparation Much like the issue of revised national targets, also pushed on to COP27 was a mechanism to help fund nations to deal with loss or damage associated with climate change. It has long been argued that unpreventable or unmanageable climate events, such as hurricanes and flooding have a direct effect on the resources of developing countries, forcing them to spend budgets on repairing damage rather than proactively mitigating climate change. Richer nations have, for a long time, sought to oppose a financing mechanism which could be viewed as a compensation or reparation scheme, recognising the potential costs associated with legal liability for climate damage. [box type=“shadow” align=“” class=“” width=“”] Coal and fossil fuel: To “accelerate efforts towards” phasing down “unabated coal power” and to bring about an end to “inefficient” fossil fuel subsidies. Loss and damage: Beginning of a “dialogue” on funding a new organisation to support countries affected by climate change. Climate finance: Increase in climate finance for poorer nations to at least meet the previously set out $100 billion target per year, through to 2025. Rich nations will double their support for adaptation measures to help developing countries. Carbon markets: The rules will create a market for units representing emissions reductions that countries can trade, under so-called Article 6. Trees: Over 100 nations pledged to end deforestation by 2030. Methane: Large methane emitters including Russia, China and India did not join in pledging to a scheme to cut 30 per cent of methane emissions by 2030. [/box] COP25 produced some progress on the issue, including the establishment the Santiago Network, a reporting and database system, however no funding mechanism was discussed at COP26 . Pre- COP26 COP26 by pledging to increase finance to ensure $500 billion will be available for the next five years. Crucially, the Glasgow Climate Pact has introduced a shift to where that finance will be directed. The text agreed to double the proportion of climate finance going to adaption. The agreement falls short of the UN recommendation for an even split, recognising current top-heavy investment in emissions-cutting projects because of their viability to return a profit. However, the move is seen as progress for those poorer countries who face extreme weather and struggle to obtain investment. The success of the Glasgow Climate Pact will rest on whether nations are prepared to transmit their pledges at COP26 into legally binding ambitions nationally. The Glasgow Pact is not legally binding, meaning that domestic responsibility will play a huge role in limiting global warming to acceptable levels. Outside of the inclusion of fossil-fuels as an issue which needs addressed at COP26 , it appears that next year’s pledges expected by nations, could be a defining moment in the climate crises. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  28

 28 : COP25_UK227
The world’s governments will meet in Madrid this December to discuss the climate emergency, it has been confirmed, after a HYPERLINK last-minute intervention by the Spanish government to save the talks. The conference had been set to take place in Santiago, Chile, but the government of President Sebastian Pinera HYPERLINK decided on Wednesday to call it off After Chile withdrew, there was concern that the annual talks might have to be scaled down, postponed or even abandoned. However, on Friday afternoon, the UN’s top official on climate change, Patricia Espinosa, issued a terse statement that COP25 would go ahead on the original dates, 2-13 December, but in Madrid. Scientific warnings have become increasingly insistent that time is running out to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and stave off the worst damages of global heating. But international negotiations under the UN have been slow and plagued by upsets and backsliding, such as the US plans to withdraw from the Paris agreement, Brazil’s rejection of its commitments by President Jair Bolsonaro, and the rise of political populism in other regions. Katherine Kramer, the global climate lead at Christian Aid, said: “It’s a shame that COP25 won’t be held in Latin America to highlight some of the grave climate impacts that affect the region. But hopefully a Madrid summit will be able to keep those in mind. Credit should be given to the Spanish government for offering to help at such short notice . . . but it shows how important countries view the UN process for tackling climate change that they are prepared to do all they can to keep the talks on track.” Tasneem Essop, the interim executive director of the Climate Action Network, made up of many NGOs with an interest in the issue, said: “We hope all steps are going to be taken . . . to make access to this COP fair and inclusive. It is important that there is the full participation of climate activists and observers from different parts of the world to COP25 where important negotiations on the Paris agreement are due to be undertaken.” Some activists who had HYPERLINK set sail for Chile from Europe Greta Thunberg, the Swedish climate activist who sparked the global student strikes, had travelled as far as Los Angeles without flying and was planning to continue to Santiago in time for the conference. On Friday she made a plea for help getting back to Europe in time for the conference. “It turns out I’ve travelled half around the world, the wrong way,” HYPERLINK she tweeted . “Now I need to find a way to cross the Atlantic in November . . . If anyone could help me find transport I would be so grateful.” This year’s talks are essential to putting the 2015 Paris agreement into practice and to pave the way for a crunch conference in the UK next year at which the long-term response to the climate emergency will be decided. Many of the world’s national commitments to cut greenhouse gases are pegged to a 2020 deadline, and if new commitments are to be set then next year will be crucial.
  29

 29 : COP24_UK270
Most central bankers make a virtue of the narrowness of their remit, remaining circumspect on issues deemed to go beyond it. Not Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England, who, despite facing criticism for exceeding his mandate, has suggested the risks arising from climate change should form part of its annual stress tests for banks from 2019. The suggestion is timely. It comes a few days after rules governing how to implement the Paris climate agreement were approved, against significant odds, by nearly 200 countries at the COP24 talks in Poland. It is also uncontroversial it does not require a change to the regulatory framework, but simply adds a risk to the list that banks are already meant to measure. Furthermore, the Bank of England is suggesting including climate change as an exploratory scenario, which banks can neither pass nor fail. They are required only to scrutinise whether they are doing enough. For that reason, many climate activists will consider the proposal, much like the Paris agreement itself, does not go far enough. The measure should at least help to convince financial sector actors of the potential impact they face from climate issues. The latest warnings about global warming are sobering. The recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change HYPERLINK report noted that on current trends, average global temperatures are set to rise by 3-4C from pre-industrial levels by 2100. Failure to take action to curb that rise creates multiple risks. Extreme heat events are likely to multiply. So, too, are the frequency and intensity of heavy rain and floods, and of droughts. Actions taken to mitigate climate change also carry risk. New policies aimed at limiting average global temperature rises, in line with the Paris agreement, will make it harder for hydrocarbon-intensive industries to operate profitably. This could leave companies with stranded assets worth billions, and the banks that lent to them with enormous unpaid debts. Whatever the source of the risk, a core function of a central bank is to ensure that money is being safely lent. Lenders are moving slowly because unlike the insurance sector they are less directly exposed to the destructive power of extreme weather. But they are not immune and should be paying more heed. A report by insurance company Swiss Re found the total economic loss from natural catastrophes and man-made disasters nearly doubled to $337bn in 2017, from $180bn the year before. Lloyd’s of London this year posted its first loss in six years, citing the impact of a series of natural disasters. Axa, the large insurer, has warned that more than 4C of warming this century would make the world uninsurable . The consequences for the whole financial system would then be catastrophic. Any move by the Bank of England to incorporate climate risks in stress tests would be the first by a central bank of a major financial centre. But others are alert to climate change risks. In 2017, the Dutch central bank published a report entitled Waterproof? , which concluded that financial institutions should factor in the consequences of a changing climate and the transition to a carbon-neutral economy. Such steps alone will not prevent the oceans rising, climate-induced mass migration or extreme weather. Governments must develop policies and regulatory environments that change businesses’ behaviour. The tragedy of the horizon , as Mr Carney puts it, is the danger that by the time climate change is recognised by enough actors to be a defining issue for financial stability, it may already be too late to manage it.
  30

 30 : COP24_UK69
It was never going to be easy holding a United Nations climate-change meeting in a country that gets 80 per cent of its energy from coal and is planning more of the same. The 24th Conference of Parties ( COP24 ) to the Paris Accord on Climate Change opened in the southern Polish city of Katowice on Monday with confusion from the start. A map of pavilions showed one for the United States, but when visitors went to the spot it was empty. The US negotiating team had no idea why their country was even listed among the displays. President Trump is in the process of withdrawing from the Accord. Nigeria, Benin and Congo Brazzaville did have stands, but for much of the time there were no staff to run them. French leader Emmanuel Macron was due here, but couldn’t leave Paris because of violent protest against his plan to increase a tax on fossil fuels. On Wednesday he agreed to scrap the hike, but a spokesman for the demonstrators said it was, ‘too little too late,’ and the riots look set to continue. The aim of COP24 But to the horror of green protestors, the president of Poland arrived to sign a ‘solidarity accord’ with miners, confirming there would be no end to Polish coal any time soon. Most African countries have a presence here, some with teams larger than wealthy nations. John Owusu is a retired engineer originally from Ghana, but for 50 years he has worked across all regions of Africa. ‘There’s a crisis of energy on our continent,’ he said ‘More than 600 million people have no electricity but we have African countries with huge delegations, all staying in top hotels, and for what?’ He said a key to saving the environment was to stop the loss of forest across Asia and Africa.
‘Where people have no other way to cook or heat their homes, they will use firewood,’ he said. ‘We need electricity for Africa and we need it now. That’s where the money should be spent, not on flying to summits.’ The main US team will arrive on Monday to promote an alliance between countries who could share technology on how to use coal without putting off harmful emissions. Australia, the US, India and South Africa are considered world leaders in the science. Indian environment minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, a former ear, nose and throat surgeon said his work as a doctor left him ‘in no doubt’ on the need for clean air. But he also defended his country’s coal program, saying ultra-supercritical systems had changed the way it was used, reducing emissions to levels that allowed India to meet its obligations under the Paris deal. And, he said, India ‘stands ready to share clean technology of all kinds,’ with the world. ‘This is a battle for the planet, not for any one country,’ he said. Zimbabwe is represented by minister for agriculture Perence Shiri was was previously banned from entering the European Union under sanctions against the former regime of Robert Mugabe. The official UN list shows 86 people in the Zimbabwe delegation. The World Bank announced it would spend $200bn over the next five years to help countries limit climate change though it will not fund projects using fossil fuel, a policy opposed by the US which is the banks largest donor. But there was a light moment for the Zimbabwe delegation when they passed by the Polish stand to find a display marked, ‘Sadza Soap.’ In Zimbabwe’s Shona language, sadza is a stiff maize-meal porridge and the national dish. In Polish, it means soot or powdered coal. The soap was displayed in glass cases surrounded by Polish coal. Countries in the region are using oil, coal and nuclear power to lessen their dependence on Russian gas in wake of Moscow’s annexation of Crimea and eastern Ukraine. With winter temperatures falling below -20’baC, there is a fear President Vladimir Putin could freeze his neighbours into submission, simply by turning off the gas. COP 24 will wrap up next week, but John Owusu said it reminded him of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries or OPEC. ‘OPEC ministers come together and pledge to reduce output in order to maintain a high price of oil. Then they go home and pump as much as they like. ’Sadly it’s the same thing here. Everyone wants cheap electricity and they’ll make it with whatever works best.’ He said at least the Polish president had been honest. ‘Wind and solar are growing, but coal will continue whether we like it or not.’
  31

 31 : COP25_UK2
MADRID, Spain – What: Africa Day When: 10 December 2019 Where: Room 3, Hall 4 at IFEMA Conference Centre, Madrid Time: 18:30 to 20:00 Who: Jointly organized by the African Union Commission, African Development Bank (AfDB.org), and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa Officials, experts, activists and journalists are invited to take part and cover the Africa Day at the COP25 conference in Madrid on 10 December 2019, in room 3 at the IFEMA Conference Centre. During this event, leaders will provide an update of the global commitments made at the world’s leading climate change meeting. Africa Day marks Africa’s presence and participation at the various United Nations Climate Change Conference (UNFCCC) sessions since COP 17. Africa Day provides a platform for the continent’s decision makers and other stakeholders to engage in a dialogue that informs the region’s course of action around climate change. The discussions will touch on effective means of implementation (finance, capacity building, and technology development and transfer) of the Paris Agreement. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). Media Contacts: African Union Esther Azaa Tankou Head of Information Division Directorate of Information and Communication African Union Commission Email: HYPERLINK mailto:YambouE@africa-union.org YambouE@africa-union.org African Development Bank Gershwin Wanneburg Communication and External Relations Department African Development Bank Email: HYPERLINK mailto:g.wanneburg@afdb.org g.wanneburg@afdb.org Pan-African Parliament Ntsiuoa Sekete Senior Communications and Media Officer Pan-African Parliament Email: HYPERLINK mailto:ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  32

 32 : COP21_UK188
Small island countries facing flooding from rising sea levels are closing in on a deal with wealthy countries that would see loss and damage support measures included in the HYPERLINK global climate accord to be finalised in Paris this week . Developed countries have been resisting such a move for more than a year, fearing it could make them liable for billions of dollars in compensation. But Miguel Arias Ca’f1ete, EU climate commissioner, told the Financial Times there was now a growing understanding that loss and damage provisions would be included in the Paris agreement, as long as they did not expose wealthy countries to new claims for compensation. A draft text of the agreement was finalised on Saturday. Mr Arias Ca’f1ete said a meeting that Barack Obama, US president, had with five island leaders last week at the Paris talks, known as COP21 , had helped smooth the way for a compromise on what has become one of the more divisive issues in UN climate talks in recent years. I am very glad that the US is showing flexibility because from the very beginning of this process we have supported this concept of course with adequate language [on compensation], he said. But he added: There is one thing that we do not accept and will not accept in this agreement and that is the notion that there should be liability and compensation for loss and damage. That is a line that we can’ t cross. This is not a US-centric position but it is a position that is important for us. It is still unclear what type of loss and damage measures might make it into the final accord that delegates from nearly 200 nations are due to seal this Friday. The draft text of the agreement called for a climate change displacement co-ordination facility to be set up to relocate people affected by the fierce storms and other extreme weather scientists say is more likely as global temperatures rise. The text also says plans to address irreversible and permanent damage resulting from human-induced climate change should be completed within four years. Island country delegates said they were very pleased wealthy countries were no long rejecting outright the notion that their failure to combat global warming meant extra support was needed for small, poor countries facing a threat to their existence. But James Fletcher of St Lucia, the small Caribbean island state, said the question of how to frame loss and damage support in the Paris agreement was still a stumbling block. We believe we already have avenues for liability and compensation under international law and international agreements, he said. The discussion going on right now is a discussion among lawyers. How do we end up with a text that allays the fears of the US, the EU and other countries that we are creating a mechanism for liability and compensation. And how do you address our concern that we do not give up any rights that we presently already have under international agreements. UN climate talks have been held for more than 20 years without managing to produce the deep cuts in global emissions from burning fossil fuels that scientists say are required to avert dangerous levels of global warming. HYPERLINK Listen to the FT News podcast
  33

 33 : COP24_UK119
Environmental campaigners have accused the SNP of ’e2(EURO)oeclimate hypocrisy’e2(EURO) after an Aberdeen MP backed new tax breaks for the North Sea oil industry. Friends of the Earth (FoE) said it was
’e2(EURO)oeappalled’e2(EURO) that Aberdeen North MP Kirsty Blackman supported the legislation in Westminster while her party presented its green credentials in Poland. But Ms Blackman hit back with a staunch defence, saying the SNP was ’e2(EURO)oeat the forefront of tackling climate change’e2(EURO) and that Scotland was living up to its commitments on emissions. On Tuesday, she slammed Labour’e2(EURO)(TM)s shadow treasury minister, Clive Lewis, after he criticised the UK Government for introducing legislation on transferable tax histories. TTH was brought in to smooth the transfer of ageing assets to smaller companies which want to invest in extending field life. The legislation lets buyers inherit tax credits from the seller which can later be used to offset decommissioning costs. During a Commons Public Bill Committee session, Mr Lewis said TTH would compromise efforts to cut carbon emissions. He said the Treasury had exposed UK taxpayers to ’e2(EURO)oeexorbitant’e2(EURO) future decommissioning costs. Ms Blackman said Labour had ’e2(EURO)oegiven up’e2(EURO) on the North Sea and ’e2(EURO)oebetrayed’e2(EURO) oil workers by rejecting the UK’e2(EURO)(TM)s strategy of maximising economic recovery (MER) from the basin. However, Ms Rance said MER was ’e2(EURO)oeincompatible’e2(EURO) with the UK’e2(EURO)(TM)s efforts to cut greenhouse gases, and would serve only to ’e2(EURO)oeline the pockets of big corporations’e2(EURO). United Nations climate change conference in Katowice. The first minister spoke of a ’e2(EURO)oemoral responsibility’e2(EURO) to ’e2(EURO)oeprevent and mitigate the effects of global climate change’e2(EURO). Ms Sturgeon said Scotland had been ’e2(EURO)oewidely praised internationally’e2(EURO) for its work to cut emissions and that she was ’e2(EURO)oeabsolutely determined’e2(EURO) there would be ’e2(EURO)oeno let-up’e2(EURO) in its efforts. Ms Rance said: ’e2(EURO)oeIt is appalling that while the first minister is talking about climate leadership, her MPs at Westminster are voting through enormous handouts for oil and gas companies.’e2(EURO) She went on: ’e2(EURO)oeThis tax break could amount to tens of billions of pounds to the very same firms destroying our climate.’e2(EURO) Ms Blackman said oil and gas was the major industry in Aberdeen and that it would be vital to ’e2(EURO)oesteward’e2(EURO) petroleum production for decades to generate employment and other economic benefits. ’e2(EURO)oeThe only party with a clear vision to make the most of Scotland’e2(EURO)(TM)s vast energy potential, both oil and gas and renewable technology, is the SNP. ’e2(EURO)oeThe Tories don’e2(EURO)(TM)t care, and Labour has given up.’e2(EURO)
  34

 34 : COP21_UK155
It was entirely predictable that the nuclear industry achieved precisely nothing at the recent Paris COP-21 talks and in the subsequent international agreement. The agreement reached in Paris was maybe remarkable in that 196 countries managed to agree about something, particularly after the fiasco at the previous talks in Copenhagen, but what was achieved lacks any teeth. Amongst all the predictable back-slapping that accompanied the accord is the fact that the only guarantee is continued high fossil fuel emissions. The onus is therefore upon the major economic powers, notably the United States, China and the European Union, to define a feasible path to carbon-free energy and drag the rest of the world along. Analysis of the submissions of the 196 governments that signed up to the Paris agreement, demonstrating their own individual schemes on how to reduce national carbon emissions, show that nearly all of them exclude nuclear power. The future is likely to repeat the experience of 2015 when 10 new reactors came into operation worldwide but 8 shut down. So as things stand, the industry is essentially running to stand still. The additional 1000 or 2000 reactors needed by 2050 for nuclear to take up the place allocated for it in the energy scenarios are a long way away. It is becoming increasingly clear that it is the understanding of radiation and reform of the international regime which protects the public which is the most crucial. So long as any incremental dose of radiation, however small, is regarded as potentially harmful, the nuclear industry has little chance of fulfilling its potential. The challenge is essentially to get the linear no threshold (LNT) theory of radiation exposure consigned to the dustbin of history. The full version of this article is set to be published in the February 2016 issue of Nuclear Engineering International, which will be distributed at WM2016. About the authorSteve Kidd is an independent nuclear consultant and economist with East Cliff Consulting. The first half of his career was spent as an industrial economist within British industry, followed by nearly 18 years in senior positions at the World Nuclear Association and its predecessor organisation, the Uranium Institute. ~ ~ ~
  35

 35 : COP21_UK123
The Renault-Nissan Alliance has become the official passenger-car provider for the United Nation’s COP21 climate conference in Paris. The Alliance will provide 200 pure electric vehicles to the annual summit which runs from 30 November to 11 December. Together, the vehicles are expected to cover more than 400,000 km, emitting zero emissions while shuttling delegates during the 21st annual Conference of Parties (better known as COP21 ). More than 20,000 UN participants from 195 countries are expected to attend COP21 . “Electric vehicles are a practical and affordable mode of transportation. At the same time, they offer a solution for drastically reducing tailpipe CO2 emissions. They also reduce regulated exhaust pollutants, helping us to improve the air quality in our cities. Together, the public and private sectors can accelerate the transition to a zero-emission society,” said Carlos Ghosn, chairman and CEO of the Renault-Nissan Alliance.~ The COP21 This marks the first time the UN will use a zero-emission or 100% electric fleet for its entire passenger-car shuttle at a climate summit.~ 200 Renault and Nissan employees volunteer to drive at COP21 ~ COP21 as volunteer drivers. The response was overwhelming with more than 450 employees applying before the recruitment process was closed. The 200 successful Renault and Nissan applicants, as well as the professional drivers, will undergo a rigorous training program in preparation for the event.~ “Renault and Nissan employees are at the forefront of the electric-vehicle revolution. Many of them already drive an electric vehicle. They are the best ambassadors to demonstrate the benefits of these cars and what zero-emission mobility is all about,” said Ghosn.~~ The Renault-Nissan Alliance will set up network of 90 quick and standard charging stations in strategic locations with French electric utility company EDF powered by low-carbon electricity. The residual emissions will be offset under an accredited UN carbon offsetting program. The quick charging stations will be able to charge the EVs from 0 to 80% capacity in about 30 minutes.~~
  36

 36 : COP26_UK327
Celtic Renewables hosted media from all over the world as COP26 arrived at the company’s country of origin earlier this month. The company was featured live on ITV’s Good Morning Britain while also appearing on the Australian evening news. The company was also showcased in UN Ambassador Sacha Dench’s documentary on sustainability “Discovering the Green Revolution” which was broadcast in the COP26 Blue Zone. This campaign also opened up new opportunities for the company and coupled with the international interest in their process during COP26 , the company has launched another Crowdcube campaign that they say will fund their international expansion as they seek to capitalise on recent global interest to develop bigger plants all over the world. Founder and president Prof Martin Tangney OBE said: “I firmly believe that innovation will help us achieve Net Zero, but the real difficulty is getting large financers to fund these ideas.~ Our success with crowdfunding demonstrates that individuals out there do care about climate change and that they will put their money where their beliefs are.~ Our role is to give them a return on their investment, by bringing our sustainable technology to the world.” During COP26 HYPERLINK completed construction They further announced the HYPERLINK signing of a strategic partnership with Caldic, a global leading solutions provider for the life science and speciality chemical industries that turned over € 900 million last year. ~ ~ Classification Language:
  37

 37 : COP25_UK31
Climate activist Greta Thunberg, 16, is stranded in Los Angeles Swedish teen was set to make carbon-neutral trip on land to Santiago, Chile Chilean capital was scheduled to host a key UN conference on climate change But mass protests erupted in Chile, forcing government to cancel event Spain’s offer to host the conference in its capital of Madrid was accepted The Spanish government says it is willing to help teen environmental activist Greta Thunberg cross the Atlantic Ocean in time to attend a United Nations climate conference in Madrid after it was relocated from Chile. But the clock is ticking. Thunberg, who is currently in Los Angeles, needs to find a way to make it in time for the December 2 start of the COP25 conference in the Spanish capital by traveling through carbon-free modes of transportation. It is uncertain how Spain would arrange a 6,000-mile carbon-free trip for Thunberg given her current location. ‘Dear Greta, it would be great to have you here in Madrid,’ Teresa Ribera, Spain’s Ecological Transition Minister, said on Twitter on Saturday. ‘You’ve made a long journey and help all of us to raise concern, open minds and enhance action. ’We would love to help you to cross the Atlantic back.’ Spain’s Prime Minister, Pedro Sanchez, suggested his capital city host the UN’s COP25 conference aimed at reducing global carbon emissions and combating climate change. The event was initially scheduled to be held in Santiago between December 2 and 13. But Chile has been paralyzed for weeks by massive protests that were sparked by a proposed 3 per cent hike in subway fares. At least 18 people have died and more than 7,000 have been arrested as millions have poured into the streets demanding the government address economic inequality. The massive demonstrations, which have been marred by cases of arson and vandalism, forced the Chilean government to withdraw as hosts of the climate conference. Thunberg, the Swedish 16-year-old who has gained worldwide fame for sparking a youth movement that is urging global action on climate change, traveled to the United States by sailing on a carbon-free yacht across the Atlantic. The voyage on the zero-emissions yacht which began in Plymouth, England, took about two weeks. After attending the UN Climate Action Summit in New York in September, she traveled to Los Angeles in an electric car. Thunberg had planned to travel from Los Angeles by land across Central and South America in order to attend the conference in Santiago. But now that the venue of COP25 has changed, the teen, who has vowed to only get around by carbon-free modes of transportation, tweeted that she is essentially stranded in North America. ‘As # COP25 ’It turns out I’ve traveled half around the world, the wrong way:). . . ’Now I need to find a way to cross the Atlantic in November. . . If anyone could help me find transport I would be so grateful.’ In another tweet, she wrote: ‘I’m so sorry I’ll not be able to visit South and Central America this time, I was so looking forward to this. ’But this is of course not about me, my experiences or where I wish to travel. ’We’re in a climate and ecological emergency. I send my support to the people in Chile.’ She also tweeted: ‘This of course no problem.
’People are suffering all around the world, and I’m fine whatever I do and wherever I am.’ The distance between Los Angeles and Madrid is 5,814 miles. Presumably, Thunberg would need to make another cross-country trek back to the East Coast and then take another vessel which would set sail for the Spanish coast.
  38

 38 : COP26_UK253
Glasgow’s popular Christmas market has been cancelled due to Cop26 . Market Place Europe, which has previously ran the market in George Square in the city centre, confirmed it has cancelled this year’s festivities after experiencing difficulties accessing the site due to the UN conference. Glasgow Loves Christmas, the organisation that runs the annual events on behalf of the Glasgow City Council, was unable to ascertain when organisers would be able to begin setting up for the event because of the Cop26 . The market was been planned to run from November 25 to New Year’s Eve. A spokesperson for the company said: “It’s 100 percent been cancelled. The reason is following Cop26 A spokesperson for Glasgow Loves Christmas said:”We explored every option with the Glasgow Christmas Market operator to make George Square markets possible this Christmas. “Unfortunately we haven’t been able to create a mutually agreeable plan for this venue. We are looking forward to the return of the markets in St Enoch Square which will run from around 21/22 November until 23 December.” The switch-on of the Christmas lights in George Square has also been cancelled, but a spokesperson for Glasgow Loves Christmas later added an update that there would be a “virtual Christmas lights switch-on moment” due to current coronavirus restrictions. It’s understood the cancellation of the events was a mutual decision between city officials and organisers. This is the second year in a row that the event has been unable to go forward, with last year’s festivities scrapped due to strict coronavirus measures. While some weren’t too bothered about the news, many are not happy that Cop26 is able to go ahead despite the Christmas market being cancelled. Replying to the news on Glasgow Live’s Facebook page, one said: “Priorities are all wrong. We need these glimmers of hope and normality not let’s host COP26 with 25000 people from all over the world but us Wegies can’t get our Christmas markets and light switch on.” Another commented: “Two year’s running now! First the fireworks display now the markets. Let the kids enjoy the festive season the way it should be! What happened to People make Glasgow!!” Read More HYPERLINK Cop26 Glasgow - news: Insulate Britain protesters block roads HYPERLINK When is Glasgow’s HYPERLINK Cop26 UN climate conference taking place? Language: ~ENGLISH
  39

 39 : COP23_UK79
A POPULAR holiday destination for Britons could be gone by the end of the century as it continues to sink due to rising sea levels, as world leaders are called to act at the COP23 conference. Getty The Maldives is rapidly sinking and could be gone in the next 80 years The Pacific Islands contain some of the famous idyllic holiday destinations chosen by Britons for sun and luxury,~ With sea levels rising dramatically in the past few decades, the islands will suffer the most as they eventually become entirely submerged. Tuvalu could be uninhabitable by 2050, with some islands such as Kiribati being completely gone by 2100. The Pacific island nations have urged leaders around the world to act after the COP23 conference in Germany discussed climate change and implementing the 2015 Paris agreement on global warming. The COP23 The Maldives is a famous destination for honeymooners and families, and this is also at risk of completely disappearing. With the lowest elevation in the world and just an average height of four feet above sea level, this too could be gone in the next century. The Solomon Islands have also been affected, with five of them already having completely sunk. New Zealand has become the first nation to create a new visa category for people who live on the islands, and are a product of island displacement. Getty Pacific Islands has warned that many islands are sinking, threatening the homes of many Professor Tim Flannery, a climate change expert at La Trobe University, told news.com.au: “It’s very concerning times, particularly if you live in a small island nation.”Many of those nations are already making agreements to deal with the problem as it develops.” He explained further: “As sea water rises it starts to penetrate the freshwater on the land, that’s the most immediate threat for a lot of the island.”Beach and coastal erosion and flooding is another threat. With these two factors it’s entirely possible within the next 30 years some islands could be rendered uninhabitable.” Getty The Maldives is a popular destination for honeymooners, but may not be around in the next decade They aren’t the only tourist destinations that could disappear within 50 years.~ Rising sea levels are also occurring due to glaciers melting as the planet warms up. The famous Columbia Glacier in Alaska is at risk due to the speed in which it is melting. Related articles UK weather: 2017 could be one of top three HOTTEST years ever recorded Great Barrier Reef DYING: Corals among 62 natural wonders under threat Earth under THREAT: Humans must do THIS to save the planet
  40

 40 : COP25_UK346
HYPERLINK StationID=6165&DateTime=09%2f20%2f2019+13%3a00%3a23&Dur=297&PlayClip=true Click to view video (available for 30 days from publication date): StationID=6165&DateTime=09%2f20%2f2019+13%3a00%3a23&Dur=297&PlayClip=true Speech to text transcript: 1~ in more than 150 countries. The younger a person is, the more the changing climate will impact them as they grow and the less of a voice they’re given today. We’ll have the latest from our correspondents in Sydney, Nairobi and Paris. oil installations, our security correspondent is at the scene. The missiles were able to penetrate through Saudi Arabia’s very expensive multi-billion dollar defences that they bought at vast cost from the West. Previous winners, England. And the rugby World Cup kicks off in Tokyo. Here in the East: Children across the region join the worldwide protests to protect the environment. And the Bedford Blue playing for the USA in the Rugby World Cup because of his Californian granny. as Duncan Kennedy reports. what we want? Climate action! When do we want it? Now! Home to 7.5 billion people. Robust, but warming. And today, the stage for a global message. The Pacific island of Vanuatu helped send the first of those messages. And no wonder. greenhouse gas emissions. The younger a person is, the more that the changing climate will impact them as they grow, and the less of a voice they are given today. Considering we have such a short amount of time to turn this issue around, it’s vital that young people are at the forefront of this conversation because they will be impacted more than anyone else. I think this is the most important issue of our time and I’m here for my children’s future. I think it is that important. This isn’t a fringe movement, this isn’t a greeny issue, this isn’t a lefty issue, this is a human issue. They have to stop making political advantage of this issue and unite the country behind a crisis approach to dealing with modifying our economy to be carbon free. It’s absolutely essential. The Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg later tweeted her support. The new day in South Africa brought singers and dancers onto the streets. Here in Johannesburg, they also wanted to send a message to next week’s UN conference on climate change that the speed of action must be increased. In India, the crowd seemed more modest. But, in a country whose economy In Britain, around 300 protests are taking place across the country. campaigners basking in the solidarity of their joint action. What do we want? Change! When do we want it? Now! At Harrogate in North Yorkshire, children were again the focus. The government said it could not endorse eight school day being missed but that message seemed lost here amid the enthusiasm of their