News Articles Set 3
1

 1 : COP25_UK298
December 10, 2019 SP Global Joins Effort to Power Global Platform Available to All Issuers Further Support Provided by Mastercard Investment in Doconomy Madrid COP25 Today, the first bank in the U.S. and Nordea in the Nordics announced they will join The Bank of ’c5land in enabling clients to track and measure their CO2 impact through the ’c5land Index. “Addressing climate change is bigger than any one company. This is an important next step to continue progress and move from promise to action. We’ve made commitments to manage our own impact through science-based targets and renewable energy. Now, we’re helping to accelerate the action our cardholders can take every day,” said Mark Barnett, divisional president for UK, Ireland, Nordic and Baltics, Mastercard. As part of the expanded relationship, Mastercard has made an equity investment in Doconomy to further scale the expansion of the carbon tracking and offsetting platform to additional markets. “We see this as a milestone moment in battling climate change. As the world comes together for the UN Climate Change Conference COP25 , we’re putting even more power in the hands of people to have an impact on their - and the planet’s - future,” said Nathalie Green, CEO of Doconomy. Doconomy uses the ’c5land Index, a cloud-based software service, to track the CO2 emission of every transaction. The index connects each transaction category to its impact on the planet. The solutions offer a proven, independent benchmark climate index and is based upon leading financial data. The index has been enhanced with data through a newly formed partnership with Trucost, a part of SP Global. Doconomy was founded in 2018 and has already received several awards for their solution as the Grand Prix in Cannes Lion and been named a partner to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC). “We all have a responsibility to contribute to the solutions for the climate emergency we are experiencing. Time is running out. Many individuals are willing to do their part, but in many cases they find it difficult as they don’t know what else they can do. Through our collaboration with Doconomy, we hope to provide clear, effective channels to support these individual’s daily climate action” said Niclas Svenningsen, manager, Global Climate Action, UN Climate Change Secretariat. # # # About Mastercard Mastercard (NYSE: MA), HYPERLINK www.mastercard.com , is a technology company in the global payments industry. Our global payments processing network connects consumers, financial institutions, merchants, governments and businesses in more than 210 countries and territories. Mastercard products and solutions make everyday commerce activities - such as shopping, traveling, running a business and managing finances - easier, more secure and more efficient for everyone. Follow us on Twitter @MastercardNews, join the discussion on the Beyond the Transaction Blog and subscribe for the latest news on the Engagement Bureau. About Doconomy Doconomy AB was founded in 2018 and is both a fintech startup as well as a philosophy about how we as humans can use our money as a tool for positive change for the climate. Doconomy’s vision is to enable a sustainable lifestyle for everyone by providing simple mobile banking services that can change behavior, manage savings and reward a development towards sustainable consumption. Doconomy uses the ’c5land Index developed by ’c5landsbanken to track the impact of every transaction. Follow us on Twitter @doconomy Mastercard communications contact: +46 703173545 HYPERLINK mailto:annika.kristersson@mastercard.com annika.kristersson@mastercard.com
  2

 2 : COP21_UK40
Taipei, Taiwan - Delta announced that it joined the ‘Road to Paris’ initiative by the Carbon Disclosure Project and has committed to a 30% reduction in its electricity intensity by the year 2020, which follows a 50% reduction already achieved by the company over the past five years. Delta Electronics will actively participate in a series of events that reflect its commitment to sustainability during the upcoming COP21 . Delta will present its 21 green buildings, which it has constructed over the past 10 years, at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. In addition, Delta will organize a side event, which has been approved by the United Nations COP21 General Secretariat, to share its knowledge and achievements in energy savings and the construction of green buildings. Mr. Ping Cheng, chief executive officer of Delta Electronics, emphasized, ‘Delta has a long-term commitment to sustainability. From 2010 to 2014, we successfully reduced our electricity intensity (electricity use per product value) by 50% compared to 2009 and in the past 10 years we have constructed 21 green buildings. Delta is now enhancing our commitment by engaging in the CDP’s Road to Paris initiative and promising a further 30% reduction in electricity intensity by 2020, and we are expanding our commitment to the whole group.’ Ms. Shan-Shan Guo, chief brand officer of Delta Electronics and executive director of Delta Electronics Foundation, said, ‘Delta is honored to have received permission by the UN COP21 General Secretariat to organize a side event at the Climate Generations areas during COP21 . After 10 years of implementing green buildings, we wish to share our experience by organizing a side event and hosting the ’Delta 21 Green Buildings at COP21 Exhibition’ at the Grand Palais, and show the world the efforts of a corporation that is deeply committed to sustainability.’ Since 2007, the Delta Electronics Foundation has attended the UN Climate Change Conferences annually, and in 2014, it hosted a side event in which Delta introduced their experience on rebuilding the Namasia Elementary School. Over the years, Delta’s efforts to reduce carbon emissions have been recognized by international organizations such as the CDP, which selected Delta for its Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) in 2014-the only company chosen from the Greater China region. For the past five consecutive years, Delta has also been a member of the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) World Index and was a leader in the ICT Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Components in 2015. 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP21 ) will be the most important climate change conference in the past 10 years. We expect the participating countries to reach an agreement to reduce carbon emissions. During COP21 , Delta will use its advanced ‘edge-blending’ projection capabilities to exhibit its entire portfolio of green buildings inside the Grand Palais in Paris, France. The Delta Electronics Foundation will also organize a side event to share Delta’s contributions on green buildings and carbon footprint reduction. Contact: Delta Group 186, Ruey Kuang Road Neihu, Taipei 11491 Taiwan, R.O.C Tel: +886-2-8797-2088 Email: HYPERLINK mailto:news@delta.com.tw news@delta.com.tw [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  3

 3 : COP26_UK345
This weekend an estimated 30,000 people will descend on Glasgow for the COP26 climate change summit. The conference is seen as a last chance to make real change and curtail the climate crisis. The event is one of the largest held in Scotland and will be attended by well-known climate activist Greta Thunberg. What is COP26 COP26 is the next UN climate change conference that is taking place in Glasgow from Sunday, October 31, 2021 - Friday, November 12, 2021. What does COP26 COP stands for Conference of the Parties, and will be attended by countries that signed the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 1994. The 2021 meeting in Glasgow is the 26th conference held, which is why 26 is in the name. The Paris Conference in 2015 was called the COP21. HYPERLINK Budget 2021: What time is budget today, what has Rishi Sunak already announced and what we can expect The event is being held for the first time ever in the UK, in Glasgow, Scotland’s largest city. Who is going to be at COP26 ? Delegates from more than 190 countries will be attending the conference. This also includes thousands of negotiators, interpreters, journalists and observer organisations. UK politicians such as Michael Gove and Boris Johnston will be present. US politicians John Kerry and President Joe Biden will also attend, this is significant after the former administration pulled out of the Paris Agreement. The US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, John Kerry is set to be a major part of discussions, and President Joe Biden will be at the event too. High profile guests also include climate activists Greta Thunberg, broadcaster and natural historian David Attenborough and Pope Francis. However, there has been some hesitancy on travelling during Covid, with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison stating he may not attend as he is focussing on reopening his country. The UK has said it will be “very disappointed” if Prime Minister Morrison does not attend as Australia is the second largest coal exporter in the world. The Queen set to miss COP26 The Queen will not be attending the COP26 climate change summit in Glasgow, after her medical team advised her to rest. Why is the COP26 The COP26 It will also examine how well countries have honoured their commitments under the Paris Agreement in 2015 to limit global warming to well below 2 . What about Covid? The conference was meant to be scheduled for November 2020 but because of rising Covid cases it was delayed. The Scottish government, the UN and the UK’ s national government have all been working together to ensure precautions are taken. The event was decided to be held in person, instead of digitally to help countries work together and make progress on climate change. There was a concern that if the conference was done online that it may be hard getting countries to commit to change. People travelling from red list countries, will still be required to quarantine and delegates who have not been able to get the vaccine yet will be able to do so, at the UK’s expense. More from News Letter: HYPERLINK Great British Bake Off 2021: Who left Bake Off last night, who won star baker and Pastry Week episode recap HYPERLINK Northern Ireland fireworks displays 2021: Best Halloween firework events this year - and things to do to celebrate HYPERLINK Halloween 2021: How do I keep my dog calm during fireworks? Top tips from Dog’s Trust on keeping your dog safe
  4

 4 : COP22_UK214
They organised a public hearing with members of the European Parliament. The companies welcomed the ratification of the Paris agreement and its entering into force before the COP22 . This shows once again the leadership of the European Union in the fight against climate change. The EU must now turn its long term climate commitments (80-95% of greenhouse gas emission reductions compared to 1990 by 2050) into concrete measures in order to align the EU ETS with the objectives agreed in Paris.The reform proposed by the European Commission, whilst welcome, will not be sufficient to live up to Europe’s ambitious low-carbon agenda and to secure the shift to low carbon technologies. A functioning EU ETS is critical to make the energy transition possible in a cost effective way while providing the private sector with clear and robust price signals to invest in low carbon and carbon free technologies.According to the International Energy Agency (IEA) investments of almost USD 2.5 trillion are required in the EU’s power sector over the period 2015-2040 to reach its climate goals. The energy sector accounts for almost 60% of greenhouse gas emissions covered by the EU ETS. Policymakers must go beyond measures taken so far to strengthen ETS (“backloading”/ Market Stability Reserve) and the current proposal under discussion. The negotiations of its “4th phase” (2021-2030) provide a unique opportunity to fix the European carbon market.In this context, a combination of short and long term measures to fix the EU ETS is needed, no single measure being able to do that alone.Therefore, new initiatives must go beyond the current texts under discussion with the aim of: Strengthening the structure of the carbon market and restoring the investors’ confidence by providing visibility and predictability; Fostering robust price signals on the market - a significant increase in CO2 prices is necessary to unlock the full decarbonisation potential of the power sector in the future.Measures adopted at EU level should be preferred over uncoordinated national initiatives that undermine the ETS and disrupt the level-playing field in the European Union.These proposals must go hand in hand with efficient carbon leakage provisions to protect the competitiveness of European industries exposed to international trade.
  5

 5 : COP21_UK238
A SOUTH West MEP has slammed the Paris climate change talks, claiming the coal industry has been “demonised” in favour of the green energy sector. Commenting in the European Parliament last week about the Paris climate change talks, Ukip MEP Dr Julia Reid trumpeted the use of fossil fuels which she said had been the provider of
“cheap and affordable electricity for many years”. Dr Reid, who is Ukip’s science spokesman, also seemed to deny the existence of climate change which is believed by around 97 per cent of scientists. “Whenever I hear the words ‘historic agreement’ my sceptical streak kicks in,” she said. “The aim is to keep warming below two degrees at a time
when there has been no warming since 1997 when we know that a thousand years ago the Earth was warmer than it is today.”Current records are all too brief even 250 years is insufficient time for a meaningful assessment of long-term climate patterns and so-called models are only as good as the data in the programming. “The climate change industry has become a powerful vested interest. So what will this really mean in Swindon, Exeter and Penzance?” The 21st Conference of Parties ( COP21 ) in early December saw delegates from around the world descend on Paris to find a way to curb greenhouse gas emissions. The talks ended in an agreement to limit global warming to less than 2C compared to pre-industrial levels. Dr Reid continued: “The main problem is the demonisation of coal which has been the provider of cheap, affordable electricity for many years. COP 21 delegates state a need for cheap, affordable electricity but this agreement will have the opposite effect.”Already, millions in the UK live in fuel poverty having to choose between heating and eating. Approximately 20 per cent of the thousands of excess winter deaths per year are directly attributable to cold homes. COP 21 is bad for them, bad for the UK and bad for Europe.”
  6

 6 : COP25_UK75
As delegates to the COP25 climate summit scramble to adjust to a last-minute change of venue from Santiago to Madrid, one of the highest-profile attendees has stuck out a metaphorical thumb on social media to ask for a lift across the Atlantic. Teenage Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, who was HYPERLINK speaking in California Thunberg, who refuses to fly because of the carbon emissions involved, had been travelling by boat, train and electric car when the new venue was announced. “It turns out I’ve travelled half around the world, the wrong way:). . . If anyone could help me find transport I would be so grateful,” she tweeted from Los Angeles. As HYPERLINK # COP25 has officially been moved from Santiago to Madrid I’ll need some help. It turns out I’ve traveled half around the world, the wrong way:) Now I need to find a way to cross the Atlantic in November. . . If anyone could help me find transport I would be so grateful. -> ~ HYPERLINK HYPERLINK November 1, 2019 Thunberg arrived in New York for the UN climate summit in August after a 14-day HYPERLINK journey across the Atlantic She made headlines for her HYPERLINK incendiary speech at the summit “Yet, you all come to us young people for hope. How dare you. You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words. And yet I’m one of the lucky ones.” The UN announced on Friday that HYPERLINK Spain would host next month’s HYPERLINK COP25 , after Chile abandoned plans to hold it due to deadly anti-government protests. Some 25,000 delegates were expected to travel to Santiago for the event. Harjeet Singh, of environmental group ActionAid International, said moving the summit from Chile to Spain with only four weeks’ notice “presents real barriers to participation” for HYPERLINK delegates from the southern hemisphere . “Hotels in Madrid are already full. Last-minute flights are expensive. Visas can be difficult to obtain at short notice. This sudden decision is likely to shift the balance of power towards the wealthier countries of the global north,” he added in a statement. It is the second time that UN authorities have had to scramble to find a new meeting place. Brazil originally welcomed the gathering then backed out after rightwing president Jair Bolsonaro took office in January. Teresa Ribera, Spain’s ecological transition minister, said on Twitter on Saturday: “Dear Greta, it would be great to have you here in Madrid. You’ve made a long journey and help all of us to raise concern, open minds and enhance action. We would love to help you to cross the Atlantic back.”
  7

 7 : COP26_UK213
The 26th UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties ( COP26 ) launched yesterday in Glasgow and staff from the University of Liverpool will be attending the landmark summit to observe negotiations, contribute to discussions, present at events and promote the University’s research expertise. The COP26 webpage contains information on our research and expert viewpoints which are helping to inform the negotiations and future policy. Attendance at COP26 Ten researchers will be in Glasgow during the two-week event, including Professors Alessandro Tagliabue and Ric Williams from the School of Environmental Sciences and Professor Karl Whittle from the School of Engineering. The University is an accredited Observer Organisation, offering members of the delegation access to the Conference’s Blue Zone, where negotiations and associated side events will take place. University Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Research and Impact Professor Anthony Hollander will be attending COP26 during the second week, when he will advocate Net Zero North, an N8 Research Partnership initiative to drive growth in the green economy in the North of England and beyond, by co-producing research and innovation to meet real-world challenges. Dr Stephen Finnegan from the School of Architecture will host a roundtable discussion with the Director of Responsibility at KFC, focusing on collaboration to achieve a net zero carbon future and actions to tackle the climate emergency. In addition, researchers will be presenting their work at a number of Blue Zone pavilions, including: Professor Claire Mahaffey, The Changing Arctic Ocean: Impacts of Climate Change, Cryosphere Pavilion, 31 October Professor Daniel Pope, Sustainable African Food Systems: Harnessing the Power of Earth, Wind, Energy, Digitalization and People, Africa Pavilion, 4 November Professor Neil McDonald, Cultural Heritage, Resilience and the Built Environment, Resilience Hub, 9 November Liverpool is a co-sponsor of North West Route To Net Zero, the region’s cross-sector contribution to COP26 . Kate Thompson, a final year PhD student, will be representing the University at ‘Talking About My Generation’ , a panel discussion between the innovators of today and the next generation of young scientists, in the Green Zone’s Science Show Theatre. The University’s net zero materials innovation research will also be showcased at this event. Research Responding to the global climate crisis through our research is the focus of the University’s Climate Futures Research Challenge. It brings together experts in a wide range of disciplines to explore impacts of climate change, develop solutions to environmental challenges and address knowledge gaps. Research expertise spans climate science, emissions reduction, food sustainability, air quality impacts, new materials discovery, behaviour insights, risk communication, community engagement and the development of new sustainable technologies. The ‘Climate Futures: Developing Net Zero Solutions Using Research and Innovation’ film showcases the different ways University research is responding to the global climate crisis. COP26 Universities Network The University is a member of the COP26 Universities Network, a consortium of more than 80 UK-based universities that aims to ensure that the HE sector plays its part in delivering a successful COP26 . The network has worked hard to ensure easier access to evidence and academic expertise relevant to COP26 for government, NGOs, and other actors, and through its own actions. It has produced a number of briefings that address key issues on the negotiating table. University ocean scientists co-authored a report highlighting the importance of the ocean matters in climate negotiations and suggesting positive actions nations can take. Visit the official COP26 Universities Network website for more information. University sustainability The University is committed to embedding the UN Sustainable Development Goals across the institution, through research, teaching and learning, operations and community of staff, students and alumni. It launched a new Sustainability Strategy in 2021 which creates a long-term vision for our shared future that encapsulates our desire to act as global leaders in environmental, social and corporate sustainability. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  8

 8 : COP24_UK230
AFTER two long weeks of negotiations, the 24th Conference of Parties (COP) to the UN Framework for the Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) concluded on Saturday night, but climate campaigners from across the world are demanding more ambition. COP 24 , in Katowice, Poland, was billed the most important annual UN Climate Change conference since 2015 when government leaders reached ground-breaking consensus on the Paris Agreement. This committed countries of the world to limiting global warming to well below 2C, and to pursuing efforts towards a 1.5C limit. The UN climate convention also commits wealthier countries to invest in low-carbon growth of developing economies, and enshrined the principle of equity: acknowledging that the burden of cutting greenhouse gas emissions rests with developed economies that are historically responsible for the climate crisis. Paris was only the beginning; the real action must take place now, and quickly. COP 24 had the difficult task of agreeing rules to implement the Paris Agreement, defining what strong targets on emissions are, how much and what kind of finance needs to be provided to developing countries, and how governments need to implement policies to achieve low-carbon growth. But though the rules for implementing Paris were finally agreed, they do not reflect the urgency of the situation, and are not robust enough to prevent the worst impacts of climate change. There had been great hope in Katowice that the worst emitters would heed the warning of the IPCC Special Report released in October, underlining the urgency of the crisis. This report demonstrated that the world is on a warming pathway of 3.5’b0C or more, and could reach 1.5’b0C in 12 years at current rates. Missing that 1.5’b0C target is a matter of life or death. Warming over 1.5’b0C means millions more people exposed to droughts, heat-waves and floods; irreversible biodiversity loss; ocean warming that threatens marine life and the people who depend on it; and rising sea levels that can wipe small island states off the face of the earth. What this amounts to is a natural disaster of incredible proportions. COP 24 was the opportunity for world leaders to heed this evidence and commit to dramatically increase climate ambition: but with a few unsurprising exceptions, this opportunity was lost. The negotiations were skewed by disagreements over climate finance as wealthy nations tried to shirk their responsibility. Ambition was held back by a strong drive from the pro-fossil fuel lobby and occasional denial of the scientific consensus from some of the biggest polluters. The science can only go so far - it is up to our leaders to make the political decisions to save our common home. Climate change is not just a question of science, economics, or technical solutions. Climate change is a justice issue; a legacy of colonialism, whereby profits are prioritises over the lives of the poor. Climate change needs urgent political action in every country of the world. As talks in Katowice failed to produce an effective agreement to deliver on Paris, the route towards stopping irreparable climate damage is unclear. However, there is still hope.Countries around the world are rallying around bold climate plans that enshrine deadlines for stopping their contribution to climate change, and Scotland can join them. Through the dense smokescreen of global climate negotiations, technical bickering, and climate denialism, Scotland can shine a light by passing a truly world-leading Climate Change Act in 2019 with urgent action to reduce emissions over the next decade and a net zero greenhouse gas emissions target by 2050 at the latest.
  9

 9 : COP22_UK283
November 15, 2016 As senior government officials gather in Marrakech, Morocco, to chart the implementation course for the landmark Paris Agreement, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon today hailed the opening of a “new dawn for global cooperation on climate change” and told the United Nations Climate Conference ( COP 22 ) that it is critical to now translate words into effective actions. “Countries have strongly supported the Agreement because they realize their own national interest is best secured by pursuing the common good. Now we have to translate words into effective policies and actions,” Mr. Ban said as he opnedUNFCCC). > “This is critical to protect our planet, safeguard the most vulnerable and drive shared prosperity. Low-emission development and climate resilience will advance all the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)”, added Mr. Ban. Adopted by 196 States Parties to the UNFCCC last December, the Paris Agreement, so-named after the French capital where it was approved by the previous Conference, known as COP 21, aims to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change by keeping the global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit it to 1.5 degrees Celsius. In early October, the accord cleared the final threshold of 55 countries representing 55 per cent of global emissions required for it to come into effect within one month. Its entry into force was extremely swift, particularly for an agreement that required a large number of ratifications and the two specific thresholds. The Agreement entered into force in time for COP 22 , which has been under way since 7 November. Before the meeting wraps up on Saturday, 18 November, parties hope to define the rules of implementation of the Paris Agreement and establish a viable plan to provide financial support to developing countries to support climate action. [embedded content] Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon speaks to the press at the start of the High-Level Segment of the 22nd Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. Credit: UN News Centre Mr. Ban said that the United Nations will help countries implement the Agreement and he called on developed countries “to honour their commitment to mobilize climate finance - $ 100 billion by 2020 £c- to help developing countries to mitigate and adapt to climate vulnerability.” The UN chief also said that after a decade of making sure climate change was at the top of the international agenda, he would leave delegations with some key lessons: 1. Multilateral solutions work; acting together, countries achieve more than they ever could alone; 2. Heads of States and Government must take the lead; 3. Whole societies must get engaged; 4. The UN must continue to champion science; 5. Solutions must be funded and expanded; and 6. The UN must continue advancing the moral cause for action. In his remarks, the President of the UN General Assembly, Peter Thomson, encouraged all Parties to the Paris Agreement to implement and enhance ambition of their nationally determined contributions (NDCs) “without delay.” He added that urgent action on climate change “must be seen as a moral, environmental, scientific, and developmental imperative, guided by ambition, action and equity.” Ahead of the official opening of the high-level segment of the Conference, Mr. Ban told a press conference that “every country is aware that climate change is a reality” and “no country, however resourceful or powerful, is immune from the impacts of climate change.” Asked about comments made by United States President-elect Donald Trump on the Paris Agreement and climate change, the Secretary-General said that he remains “very optimistic about our efforts to combat climate change [. . . ] the global unity around climate change once seemed unthinkable but now it has become unstoppable,” he told reporters.
  10

 10 : COP26_UK30
THE legacy of COP26 is living on in Glasgow as the city marked 100 days since the close of the international climate summit. To mark the milestone since the signing of the Glasgow Climate Pact, events were yesterday held at the city chambers to keep sustainability ambitions in the spotlight. In the morning, speakers from business start ups took part in discussions about transitioning to a carbon economy. And in the afternoon, Glasgow’s young people took their chance to shine at an event hosted by pupils from Clevedon Secondary School. Pupils Lily Logan, Caiden Wright, Crystal Lin and Ivan Kaliganwa all took turns to speak to the audience during the session. Lord Provost Philip Braat said: “I saw today that our young people care deeply about climate change, the future of the planet and its people.”Their immense energy and commitment shone through in their presentations. “Our well informed and engaged young people are eminently equipped to make the right decisions for the future health of our planet and its global citizens.” More than 60 primary seven to S3 pupils from 28 schools across the city took part in the session, hearing from their peers about green projects going on in schools. These included schemes forming part of Our Dear Green Place climate change related work with the aim of inspiring young people to continue this work when returning to their own school. The audience heard from the Dandelion urban growing project about how any space schools have can be used to sow, grow and share food and ideas. The Glasgow Schools’ Forum spoke about its work in launching a young persons’ climate charter during COP26 and what the council has done in direct response to listening to pupils’ suggestions and concerns, via the Forum. St Andrews Secondary School pupils spoke about their hosting of global visitors from India, Canada and the USA during COP26 , taking part in a climate justice event hosted by Kelvin College and their work on becoming a UNICEF Rights’ Respecting school. Wiktoria Krosny and Kady Docherty, both 16 and in S5, spoke to the audience about what their school had achieved during COP26 and their ambitions for the future. Kady said: “For me, it’s about the little things - we need to take in to consideration integrating climate change into the curriculum and ensuring that young people are growing up with an understanding of the issues involved and that we all need to make changes.” Wiktoria added: “The younger generation have to live with climate change but we are not responsible for it and world leaders are not £ddoing enough.”In some aspects, COP26 was just a way to show off that we are involved but it’s not enough - we are not really seeing enough being done.” At the City Chambers event yesterday pupils heard from Danny Bent, of the charity One Run, who is part of the group organising a baton relay from Glasgow to Egypt for COP27. It will take place over 729 stages and 7000km, with 250,000 people running sections of the route carrying a baton containing messages for world leaders. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  11

 11 : COP21_UK131
The inclusion of the ‘just transition’ worker protection provision in the Paris climate change agreement is a “considerable achievement” a union has said, but pressure will continue to be placed on governments to deliver on that commitment. The final version of the Paris Decision and Agreement was released this weekend at the end of
COP21 Included in the agreement was the ‘just transition’ provision, which is a framework for a fair and sustainable shift to a low carbon economy, proposed by trades unions and supported by environmental NGOs and organisations such as the International Labour Organization (ILO). It makes the case for meaningful environmental transition and sustainable development; representation and employee involvement; stable employment and long-term planning; social justice and a fair distribution of costs; and government backing and a united purpose. For trade unions, the three core issues involved in the ‘just transition’ are the importance of consultation, investment in low carbon technologies, and equipping working people with the skills for a low carbon, resource-efficient economy. There was concern, however, by some unions of the exclusion of ‘just transition’ measures in the draft Paris Outcome, but it has since been included in the final agreement, albeit in the preamble. The wording of the measure is “clear and concise”, IndustriAll says, and “better in some ways than past formulations”. It asks the parties to take into account “the imperatives of a just transition of the workforce and the creation of decent work and quality jobs in accordance with nationally defined development priorities”. COP21 , and pressure them to deliver on that commitment.” The main aim of the annual COP agreement is to keep global warming below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and to try to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. To reach these ambitious goals and help developing countries switch from fossil fuels to greener sources of energy, appropriate financial flows will be put in place, with the developing world providing US$100bn per year by 2020. IndustriAll said its 50m affiliated workers in the manufacturing, mining, and energy sectors will be among those first and most affected by measures to control climate change. “The Paris Agreement must be seen as a starting point, not a finish line,” said Jyrki Raina, IndustriAll’s general secretary. “It creates an institutional framework that has all the necessary ingredients to succeed. Whether it actually does, or not, is now up to us. IndustriAll must be ready to lead the way forward.” Earlier this month, a group of seven apparel companies, including Levis Strauss & Co, VF Corp and Gap Inc, signed a declaration calling on government leaders to reach a strong climate change agreement. Apparel groups urge strong climate pledge from leaders
  12

 12 : COP22_UK140
In the run up to the Climate Finance Day in Casablanca, and COP22 in Marrakesh, Cr’e9dit Agricole has decided to stop financing new coal-fired power plants or extensions. This means that no more new financing will be provided other than commitments already made. This measure attests Cr’e9dit Agricole’s renewed commitment to supporting major changes in society in which its clients are involved in terms of combating climate disruption and transition to new energy sources. It has extended the commitments made in May 2015 and then in September 2015, ahead of COP21, to no longer finance coal mines or operators specialising in this area worldwide, or new coal-fired power plants in high income countries. The Group’s policies concerning its commitments in sensitive sectors in terms of the environment and climate change will continue to be adapted in order to best respond to major issues of concern to all, along with its clients. This announcement is in addition to the commitments made by Cr’e9dit Agricole CIB, the Group’s corporate and investment banking arm, announced at the time of COP21, to structure EUR60bn of new climate finance between now and the end of 2018. Between 1st January and 30th September, 2016, EUR22.5bn of this target was achieved. This article is supplied by Only Strategic Financial Newslink ( HYPERLINK www.onlystrategic.com
  13

 13 : COP25_UK56
Madrid, Spain, - The World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) has welcomed its fellow United Nations agencies to Madrid for the start of the COP25 Climate Change Summit. With tourism now high on the United Nations agenda, and with UNWTO the global leader in tourism for development and advocacy, this summit will see the near-limitless potential of the sector discussed at the very highest level and placed at the center of the climate emergency conversation. Leaders from around the world are set to attend the summit, which will take place from 2-13 December under the Presidency of the Government of Chile. A key objective this year is to advance critical issues relating to the full operationalization of the Paris Agreement. Since the landmark climate change agreement was signed by 197 nations in 2015, tourism has established itself as one of the most important global sectors for realizing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the UN Sustainability Agenda. As the United Nations specialized agency for the promotion of tourism as a driver of the sustainable development agenda, UNWTO participates with a high-level delegation, led by UNWTO Secretary-General Zurab Pololikashvili in the summit. UNWTO will also be holding a high-level side event on 3 December. This official side event in the Blue Zone brings back the tourism discussion into the heart of the COP, engaging policy makers whom are committed to the low carbon transformation of the tourism sector. The official side event will mark the launch of the new UNWTO-ITF report Transport-Related CO2 Emissions in the Tourism Sector, a groundbreaking study that presents the climate implications of the different modes of transport used by the tourism sector and provides the evidence necessary for the global tourism sector to define a high ambition scenario for the years to come. ‘UNWTO is proud to lead the efforts of the global tourism sector to deliver on climate response,’ said UNWTO Secretary-General, Zurab Pololikashvili. ‘Spain is a global tourism leader and Madrid the ideal setting for this. I thank the Government of Chile for organizing this high-level summit and Spain for hosting it. COP25 represents a great opportunity to stress the important role tourism can play in building a better, more sustainable world for all’, he added. The event will feature high-level speakers, led by the UNWTO Secretary-General and the Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Patricia Espinosa. Also contributing at the event will be the Spanish Secretary of State for Tourism, Ms. Isabel Oliver, Ms. Brigitte Collet, French Ambassador for Climate, Mr. Carlos Gentile, Secretary of State for Climate Change and Sustainable Development of Argentina and Chair of the Board of Directors of the One Planet network and Mr. Wills Agricole, Principal Secretary for Energy and Climate Change of Seychelles. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  14

 14 : COP23_UK87
China’ s top climate official said on Tuesday that preparations for a nationwide emissions trading scheme were basically complete but he stopped short of giving a date for its launch and warned of the dangers of excessive investment . Beijing announced two years ago that 2017 would be the year in which it rolled out a national carbon trading scheme that experts believe will become the largest of its type, eclipsing that of the EU. But Xie Zhenhua, Beijing’ s lead negotiator at the United Nations HYPERLINK climate change HYPERLINK conference in Bonn, pointed to several pitfalls associated with China’ s plans even as he hailed its progress. The scheme is intended to reduce carbon emissions by creating a market cost for carbon emitters. The work to create a national carbon market has won successes and the whole process is going well, Mr Xie said in a speech. Preparations for the carbon market are basically complete and after approval it can go ahead. Chinese officials and experts in Bonn, who declined to be identified, said that Beijing may miss its original target of launching the scheme this year but may be ready for the inauguration early next year. The expected delay comes after a report this week found that stronger Chinese economic growth would push global greenhouse gas emissions to a record high in 2017 after remaining flat for three years, dashing tentative hopes of a turning point in the world’ s efforts to curb climate change. China is predicted to see a 3.5 per cent jump in emissions in 2017, according to the report by the Global Carbon Project. Mr Xie stuck a cautious tone in describing some of the parameters of the planned trading scheme. He said the scheme would start by trading the carbon of a selected group of companies from mature industries and then build scale from there. Carbon futures trading will not be available at least at the launch stage of the scheme, he said. As the activity of the emissions trading scheme continues we intend to avoid excessive investment and development of excessive financial derivatives, he said. The aim of the spot contract trading will be to reduce carbon, Mr Xie said. This is our sole aim. Although Mr Xie said that market forces would play a decisive role in setting prices for carbon traded in the national scheme, he added the qualifier that the government may also provide some guidance . Chinese climate experts said that one of Beijing’ s greatest concerns was that the scheme could become a casino for speculators, potentially bidding up the price of carbon to levels than punish industry.
  15

 15 : COP21_UK305
India, one of the world’ s largest coal users, will cut back on its investments in the fuel if the new climate deal due to be struck next week in Paris delivers more money to help it shift to cleaner sources of energy such as solar power, a senior negotiator said on Wednesday. We’ ve made it very clear that solar and wind is our first commitment, said Ajay Mathur, director general of India’ s Bureau of Energy Efficiency, at the Paris talks, HYPERLINK known as COP21 . Hydro, nuclear, all of these non-carbon sources are what we will develop to the largest extent we can, he told reporters. But it has to be affordable. He was speaking as campaigners from a fossil fuel divestment movement said the number of investors shunning coal, gas and oil has surged ahead of the Paris conference. At least 500 institutions with more than $3.4tn in assets have pledged to avoid or cut holdings in fossil fuels, said activist groups 350.org and Divest-Invest. That represents a big jump from a year ago, when 181 institutions representing about $50bn in assets were committed to such a step, they said. A spate of city councils, banks, pension funds, churches and universities have pledged to cut back or shun coal investments this year. One of the most striking commitments came last month when Allianz, the German insurance group, said it would pull more than € 4bn ($4.3bn) from companies with coal businesses. Earlier this year, the Norwegian parliament decided the country’ s $857bn sovereign wealth fund should withdraw from any company in which coal represents more than 30 per cent of the business. Both moves came in the wake of a divestment campaign that began on US college campuses more than two years ago in an effort to make fossil fuel holdings as unpopular as tobacco or investments in apartheid-era South Africa. Churches and wealthy individuals with an interest in climate change then joined, including the heirs to the Rockefeller oil fortune. The momentum in this divestment campaign is accelerating day by day, Stephen Heintz, president of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, told journalists at the Paris climate conference on Wednesday. There is a moral imperative to save the planet and to do so we need to end the fossil fuel era now, he said. Benjamin Sporton, chief executive of the World Coal Association said that although the campaigners’ multi-trillion dollar headline figures seemed large, a lot of the institutions and funds with these assets did not currently have coal holdings and the amount of money actually being pulled out of coal was relatively small. While there are companies and funds saying they want to get out of coal, there are plenty of others that are remaining invested, he told the Financial Times. This was especially the case in South East Asia and in large countries such as India, where governments are planning to continue using coal for electricity. Mr Sporton said he hoped the Paris climate talks would help drive the use of technology that allows coal to be burnt more efficiently and cleanly, a chief aim of his members. Coal companies have borne the brunt of the divestment push because coal produces more carbon emissions when burnt than other fossil fuels such as natural gas. But it remains an abundant and cheap source of energy in many developing countries and is the biggest source of electricity globally, accounting for a 41 per cent share of the world’ s electricity, according to the International Energy Agency. That global share is expected to fall to just over 30 per cent by 2030, the agency says, as fast-growing renewable energy sources supply a larger proportion of electricity. However, divestments have not been the only feature of this year’ s assault on coal. Banks have made public their refusal to fund some coal investments. In Australia, where India’ s Adani group wants to build the country’ s largest proposed coal project, Standard Chartered has said it will no longer be involved in the increasingly controversial development. Banks including Deutsche and HSBC had already steered clear. And multilateral commitments to the coal industry have been reined in. Last month member states of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development agreed limits on export subsidies for coal-fired power stations, following unilateral initiatives to curb export credits by countries including the UK and US. But divestment has its critics. Anne Stausboll, chief executive of Calpers, the California state pension system, has called lobbying for divestment flawed and said it is more constructive to engage with companies where the fund invests. However California approved a divestment law in October. Calpers will evaluate divestment as outlined in the bill , the fund said. As of June it had $57m invested in 27 thermal coal companies. Listen to the HYPERLINK World Weekly podcast
  16

 16 : COP23_UK18
Bonn (Germany) - To mark COP23 , Schneider Electric, the leader in digital transformation of energy management and automation, is re-enforcing its aim to become carbon neutral by 2030. At COP21 in Paris in 2015, Schneider Electric announced 10 Commitments for Sustainability. The commitments were aligned with the Planet & Society Barometer, its sustainability scorecard, and contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. These commitments supported the company’s objectives to make its plants and sites carbon neutral by 2030, and to build a coherent industry ecosystem encompassing both suppliers and clients. Schneider Electric, which has been at the forefront of sustainability efforts for more than a decade, has made significant progress on these commitments since 2015. Schneider Electric uses 16 indicators from the 2015- 2017 Planet & Society barometer to measure its commitment to sustainable development. In October 2017, Schneider Electric announced that it exceeded its barometer target for 2017; a quarter ahead of schedule. Gilles Vermot Desroches, Senior Vice President Sustainability at Schneider Electric said: ’ COP23 gives us the opportunity to take an active part in mobilizing society - creating awareness about climate change; align with global discussions and demonstrate that there are current technologies that can have a real impact on reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions’. Schneider Electric’s sustainability efforts are closely aligned with the ambitions of COP23 , including climate justice, transition to a new economy, a strong focus on adaptation, and gender and climate change. Specifically, Schneider Electric’s aims to address the following issues when it comes to climate change: What is good for the climate is good for the economy: the global demand for infrastructure investments in transport, energy, water, and urban development is estimated at around 6,000 billion US dollars per year over the next 15 years, while 270 billion US dollars per year would be sufficient to develop low carbon infrastructures. Schneider Electric has introduced Science-Based Targets (SBTs) to help companies, as well as its own business, capitalize on the new energy landscape opportunities; Access to energy as a fundamental human right: the fight against climate change will not be effective without taking into account the needs of 2.3 billion people who have poor access to energy. Schneider Electric actively promotes access to energy. Energy Access Ventures - a fund backed by Schneider Electric that invests in growing, entrepreneurial businesses in Sub-Saharan Africa addressing the lack of electrification in the region with new technology and innovative business models - has secured commitments of 54.4 million Euros to provide electricity to 1 million people by 2020; Providing new solutions for more efficient, more livable and more sustainable cities: for Schneider Electric, a sustainable city is an urban center where infrastructure and energy go hand in hand. Schneider Electric’s EcoStruxure enables it, its partners and its customers to lead a new world of energy that is more electric, more digitized, more decarbonized and more decentralized. Schneider. Contact: Tel: +33 (0)1 41 29 70 76 [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  17

 17 : COP23_UK79
A POPULAR holiday destination for Britons could be gone by the end of the century as it continues to sink due to rising sea levels, as world leaders are called to act at the COP23 conference. Getty The Maldives is rapidly sinking and could be gone in the next 80 years The Pacific Islands contain some of the famous idyllic holiday destinations chosen by Britons for sun and luxury,~ With sea levels rising dramatically in the past few decades, the islands will suffer the most as they eventually become entirely submerged. Tuvalu could be uninhabitable by 2050, with some islands such as Kiribati being completely gone by 2100. The Pacific island nations have urged leaders around the world to act after the COP23 conference in Germany discussed climate change and implementing the 2015 Paris agreement on global warming. The COP23 The Maldives is a famous destination for honeymooners and families, and this is also at risk of completely disappearing. With the lowest elevation in the world and just an average height of four feet above sea level, this too could be gone in the next century. The Solomon Islands have also been affected, with five of them already having completely sunk. New Zealand has become the first nation to create a new visa category for people who live on the islands, and are a product of island displacement. Getty Pacific Islands has warned that many islands are sinking, threatening the homes of many Professor Tim Flannery, a climate change expert at La Trobe University, told news.com.au: “It’s very concerning times, particularly if you live in a small island nation.”Many of those nations are already making agreements to deal with the problem as it develops.” He explained further: “As sea water rises it starts to penetrate the freshwater on the land, that’s the most immediate threat for a lot of the island.”Beach and coastal erosion and flooding is another threat. With these two factors it’s entirely possible within the next 30 years some islands could be rendered uninhabitable.” Getty The Maldives is a popular destination for honeymooners, but may not be around in the next decade They aren’t the only tourist destinations that could disappear within 50 years.~ Rising sea levels are also occurring due to glaciers melting as the planet warms up. The famous Columbia Glacier in Alaska is at risk due to the speed in which it is melting. Related articles UK weather: 2017 could be one of top three HOTTEST years ever recorded Great Barrier Reef DYING: Corals among 62 natural wonders under threat Earth under THREAT: Humans must do THIS to save the planet
  18

 18 : COP21_UK334
The obstacles facing this weekend’ s historic global climate change accord were thrown into relief on Sunday night when businesses and government officials played down the impact of the deal and US Republicans underlined their opposition. The Paris agreement, which requires all countries to regularly publish plans to deal with global warming, has been hailed by international leaders as a turning point after more than 20 years of effort to make this century the last to be powered by fossil fuels. Angela Merkel, German chancellor, said the deal was the first time that the entire world community has obligated itself to act to act in the battle against global climate change , while Pope Francis also praised the concerted effort and generous dedication of those involved. It was adopted by nearly 200 nations. But coal and oil industry executives shrugged off any suggestion the new agreement sealed in Paris on Saturday night would have any immediate impact on their businesses. The agreement’ s goals include driving down carbon-dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels as soon as possible in order to limit global warming to well below 2C from pre-industrial times and perhaps as little as 1.5C, a target requiring much deeper emissions cuts than most countries are currently planning. Amber Rudd, the UK energy and climate change secretary, described the 1.5C goal as merely aspirational while defending the UK government’ s decision last month to scrap £31bn in funding for carbon capture systems that could hold emissions down. I don’ t think it was a mistake, she said. They are still expensive. Benjamin Sporton, head of the World Coal Association, said he did not see the new agreement spurring a massive change at the moment for companies that produce coal, one of the dirtiest fossil fuels, because so many developing countries still plan to keep burning it. He said the pact was likely to force governments to focus a lot more on the carbon capture and storage systems the UK had just de-funded because they would be vital for meeting its goals. The American Petroleum Institute said it was still reviewing the Paris accord, but Amjad Bseisu, chief executive of EnQest, an oil explorer in the UK North Sea, said the oil industry had more immediate concerns beyond the Paris Agreement. This is a very slow process. We already look at our carbon costs, but right now the industry has other challenges [with the falling oil price]. In the US, Mitch McConnell, the Republican Senate majority leader, questioned the Paris deal, saying that the US portion relied on measures championed by President Barck Obama that were being challenged in the courts. Before his international partners pop the champagne, they should remember that this is an unattainable deal based on a domestic energy plan that is likely illegal, that half the states have sued to halt, and that Congress has already voted to reject, Mr McConnell said. A spokesman for Paul Ryan, the Republican Speaker of the House of Representatives, told the Financial Times: This agreement does not bind Congress in any way, and we will continue to focus on an energy policy that promotes America’ s abundant natural resources, But the president of the World Bank, Jim Yong Kim, told the FT the Paris Agreement was a game-changer that should prompt fossil fuel companies to shift to low carbon business opportunities. He described his reaction to the agreement as Wow! since its measures to help poor countries adapt to climate change would re-shape the way funds were directed to developing nations. Still, many scientists questioned the prospect of governments being able to reach either the 2C or 1.5C goal in the Paris Agreement, saying it was premised on future technologies removing huge quantities of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere many decades from today. If such highly speculative ’ negative emission technologies’ prove to be unsuccessful then the 1.5C target is simply not achievable, said Prof Kevin Anderson of Manchester University. Moreover, there is only a slim chance of maintaining the global temperature rise to below 2C. Additional reporting by Kiran Stacey
  19

 19 : COP23_UK8
November 14, 2017 On the heels of one of the worst - and most costly - Atlantic hurricane seasons on record, a global initiative was launched Wednesday at the United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP23 ), in Bonn, Germany, with the aim of providing insurance to hundreds of millions of vulnerable people by 2020 and to increase the resilience of developing countries against the impacts of climate change. In 2017, extreme weather events are estimated to have caused more than $ 200 billion worth of damage worldwide, as hurricanes, droughts and rising sea levels devastated vulnerable communities with increased frequency and intensity. In the face of skyrocketing costs, new forms of financial protection have become an increasingly urgent part of the climate change discussion. The InsuResilience Global Partnership is a major scaling-up of an initiative started by the G7 in 2015 under the German Presidency. It aims at meeting the pledge of providing cover and support to an extra 400 million vulnerable people by 2020. The Global Partnership now brings together G20 countries in partnership with the so called ‘V20’ nations, a group of 49 of the most vulnerable countries including small islands like Fiji, which holds the Presidency of COP23 . “The Global Partnership is a practical response to the needs of those who suffer loss because of climate change,” said the COP23 President and Fijian Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama. This announcement on climate risk insurance was made a day before the high-level segment of COP23 , which Heads of State and Government, Ministers, and UN Secretary-General, Ant’f3nio Guterres, are expected to attend. Thomas Silberhorn, Parliamentary State Secretary to the German Federal Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development, announced support of 125 million dollar for the new Global Partnership as part of the launch. This follows the £330 million commitment to the initiative made by the British Government in July 2017. “Climate risk insurance is a response to the simple fact that extreme weather events are constantly increasing in number and intensity, and also a response to our experience that the international community and the countries affected by extreme weather events tend to really act after those incidents occurred and they tend to come too late and to intervene not significantly enough,” Mr. Silberhorn told a press conference. “So our intention is to act more preemptively, to act in time, and to act decisively in order to reduce the impact of extreme weather events. Insurance is one tool to address this challenge,” he added. A partnership for climate and disaster risk finance and insurance solutions The Global Partnership supports data and risk analysis, technical assistance and capacity building according to countries needs and priorities, solutions design of concrete risk finance and insurance solutions, smart support for the implementation for such schemes and monitoring and evaluation efforts. “This new and higher ambition initiative represents one shining example of what can be delivered when progressive governments, civil society and the private sector join hands with creativity and determination to provide solutions,” said Patricia Espinosa, Executive Secretary of the UN Climate Change secretariat (UNFCCC). The Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility
(CCRIF), for example, is being supported with the help of ‘InsuResilience.’ The most recent example of support was in September 2017, when more than $ 55 million was paid out to 10 Caribbean countries within 14 days of hurricanes Irma and Maria, which left an arc of destruction across the region. The money was used in various ways, for example, to quickly buy urgently needed medicines and to build emergency shelters for the people affected by the storms. In Zambia, InsuResilience supports the NWK Agri-Services cotton company, which offers direct weather and life insurance to small contract farmers. In 2015, some 52,000 farmers decided to buy insurance. Following a major drought in 2016, more than 23,000 farmers received payments.
  20

 20 : COP24_UK152
poses a serious threat to global prosperity, security and wellbeing. Leading climate scientists have recently warned that unless we act now, we have just 12 years before global warming risks drought, floods and extreme heat. Despite these stark warnings, the climate crisis is being almost entirely ignored by the Conservative government. Of course, Brexit is one major reason why every other issue is being pushed to the side. Gone are the days of David Cameron’s forays into the Arctic with huskies. The Tories are frankly as environmentally friendly as a dustbin fire. It is therefore no surprise to me that tens of thousands of students will walk out of lessons to raise awareness of the climate crisis, including in my Oxfordshire constituency. Inspired by 16-year-old Swedish activist, , who held a solo protest outside the Swedish parliament, this movement has now seen from 70,000 schoolchildren each week across 270 towns and cities worldwide. As a former teacher, I know how frustrating it must be to watch students walk out of class, particularly if they have important exams on the horizon. But, given the gravity and urgency of this issue, I support this strike, and the students, wholeheartedly. In fact, I think the strike is what we call in the professiona “teachable moment”. OK, lessons may not go to plan, but if I was their teacher, I’d be using the strike to discuss the physics behind climate change (I was a science teacher), the benefits of activism, and why this issue is important to them. I would also, however, encourage the students to be responsible. That means being safe and ensuring they make up for the work they will be missing. At the end of the day, I trust the judgement of head teachers to decide if they should authorise the absences. However, I’m sure many heads will feel hamstrung by fears that they’ll be taken to court, as rules around absences are currently being interpreted particularly strictly. I’m concerned that many will be forced to come down hard on students. This raises the wider point that head teachers should be given more discretion on whether to authorise pupil absences. I believe, as do the Liberal Democrats, that a system in which up to 10 days’ absence within term time per year can be authorised with the support of the head teacher - I believe this system would resolve the current issue. That said, the message from these students in protest today is to demand better for our environment. When Liberal Democrats were in a coalition government from 2010, we more than trebled investment in renewable power, helped developed Britain’s offshore wind industry into a world leader and secured an EU-wide agreement on new ambitious climate change targets for 2030. But this progress is not being taken forward by the Tories. Support free-thinking journalism and subscribe to Independent Minds What we want to see is a carbon neutral Britain by 2050, backed by a suite of policies like new financial regulations to promote green finance and fast track away from fossil fuels to create an economy that is truly green and sustainable. It would be a radical solution to an imminent problem. My challenge to other parties is they need to be just as radical, and we cannot wait for them to catch up. These strikes are a call for us MPs to take much stronger action on the climate crisis. In 2018, there were just three debates on climate change, and just one of those was in the main chamber of the House of Commons. While Labour MP Anna McMorrin’s Westminster Hall debate on - otherwise known as the 2018 United Nations Climate Change Conference - last month was excellent, it was only given one hour of parliamentary time. This is nowhere longenoughfor MPs to express their views, especially considering the UK has bid to hold the crucial UN climate change conference in 2020. That’s why I’m working with groups of MPs from all political parties to find a way to debate the issue on the floor of the house. After all, that’s what the students are challenging us to do. Act now, for their futures. It is vital that MPs take the issue of climate change seriously and support the students in their activism. They can rest assured that I certainly do. Layla Moran is a Liberal Democrat MP for Oxford West and Abingdon
  21

 21 : COP24_UK73
Katowice/Munich, 10. December 2018: On the occasion of the UN Climate Change Conference in Katowice, the BMW Group announced that the company is already sourcing electricity from renewable sources by 100% in Europe. Furthermore, the BMW Group underlined that it will source electricity from renewable sources worldwide by 2020. The BMW Group is committed to decarbonisation in in the transport sector. The holistic approach of the BMW Group to energy management during the production and a clear strategy to increase the number of electrified models across all brands and model series are an important contribution in this direction. The partnership between the UN Climate Change Conferences and the BMW Group dates back to 1992. After continuously participating in the COP climate conferences since 2008, the BMW Group will once again play an active part at COP 24 . This year, the conference will be presided over by the Government of Poland and take place in Katowice, Poland, from 3 to 14 December 2018. Sustainable Innovation Forum 2018 At COP24 , the BMW Group will be present in different events and formats, contributing both impetus and expertise to talks and presentations on sustainable development. The BMW Group once again assumes the role as headline sponsor of the Sustainable Innovation Forum on 9 and 10 December 2018. The Sustainable Innovation Forum (SIF), now in its 9th Edition has established itself as the premier sustainability event at UN COP, providing leading stakeholders from the political arena, business world and society across sectors and industries with the perfect platform to discuss the challenges of sustainable development. Focus on Four Key Streams The Forum will open with an innovation day on four key streams, Circular economy, sustainable mobility, energy transition and climate finance. In the discussions with lawmakers and business leaders as well as NGOs, representatives of the BMW Group will advocate the importance of implementing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and share their views on how companies like BMW Group can provide solutions to decarbonize the mobility sector. The BMW Group will also present in the exhibition area of the Forum the results of the 2018 Stakeholder Dialogue Series “Cities in Progress”, this series reached its final destination in Berlin last October. Previous events took place in Los Angeles, Melbourne, Shenzhen and Rotterdam with a focus on exchanging ideas with the different stakeholders involved and launching initial collaborative projects. The dialogues focused on how mobility will evolve in the cities of the future and explored alternative mobility concepts. In all five cities visited the main challenges pointed out by the participants were traffic congestion, air pollution and lack of parking space. The stakeholders shared their expectations for the BMW Group to provide new mobility services in addition to its existing products and services, as well as to have a product portfolio predominantly featuring emission- free vehicles. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  22

 22 : COP22_UK9
Senior ABB managers are to contribute to high-level discussions on the enabling power of digital technologies to transform economies and meet climate goals at the COP 22 conference, which this year takes place in Morocco from November 7-18. The event marks a turning point in the global effort to reduce carbon emissions as the landmark Paris Climate Change Agreement, agreed at COP21 last year, will enter into force during the conference. ABB Executive Committee member for the region Asia, Middle East and Africa, Frank Duggan, will join senior policymakers to champion energy efficiency as the most cost-effective way to reduce the environmental impact of development. As a key member of the United Nations Environment Programme’ s (UNEP) global action on improving appliance and equipment efficiency, ABB is helping to improve energy efficiency standards for electric motors and transformers, which accelerate energy savings. Duggan will also highlight the potential of renewables and microgrids in Africa. On a continent where almost 600 million people lack access to electricity, energy will be the lifeblood for its ongoing development, he said. In the past, only minerals and oil and gas were seen as ’ treasures’ in Africa. Today, the continent understands that solar power, wind power, geothermal power, and large scale hydro power are essential in helping drive it towards a robust electrically powered future. At ABB, we have available today the technology to help remote or isolated areas connect to a reliable and clean electricity supply. A good example is a microgrid solution we are providing for the Nairobi logistics hub of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), Duggan added. The ICRC microgrid solution incorporates both solar power and diesel to ensure a reliable power supply in a region where outages are common, and reduce carbon emissions. It is essential that the ICRC hub can rely on uninterrupted power, as it is responsible for delivering food, medicines and relief supplies across the African continent. At COP22 , ABB’ s head of microgrids, Maxine Ghavi, will discuss the expanding use of microgrid technology and integration of renewables with co-founder and pilot of Solar Impulse, Bertrand Piccard, and ICRC Head of Delegation Pascal Mauchle. Ghavi and Piccard will offer insights into running the world without consuming the earth using clean technology. ABB experts will be available at the company’ s booth with cutting-edge products like YuMi, the world’ s first truly collaborative dual-arm industrial robot, ABB’ s electric vehicle fast-charging infrastructure, and demonstrations of microgrid and wind technology. As a pioneering technology leader at the forefront of the Energy and Fourth Industrial Revolutions, ABB is uniquely positioned to help Africa build clean, low-carbon, safe and effective modern energy systems, as well as to help utilities, industry, and transport and infrastructure providers take advantage of the latest technologies to support the continent’ s development.
  23

 23 : COP23_UK28
Al Gore has suggested America could stay in the Paris Climate Agreement if a new president gets into the White House in 2020. President Donald Trump announced he would be withdrawing the US from the Paris Climate Agreement in June, making the US as the only country in the world not to get behind the framework deal to tackle greenhouse gas emissions. The agreement states that signatories cannot withdraw until 4 November 2019 but the actual departure would not become official until the following year. “If there is a new president . . . a new president could simply give 30 days notice, and the United States is back in the agreement,” the former US Vice President told an audience at COP23 , the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Bonn, Germany. Read more US cities and companies declare ‘we are still in’ Paris Agreement desp Syria signs Paris Agreement leaving US only country to refuse deal USA and Syria become only two countries not in Paris Agreement Mr Gore added: “The first date upon which the United States could actually leave the Paris Agreement happens to be the first day after the next presidential election in 2020 so that’s good news”. But he interrupted his comments during the climate finance panel at the US Climate Action Centre with a quick pause before adding “Excuse me a moment” and bowing his head and folding his hands in prayer. The former Democrat presidential candidate joked: “That was not a partisan comment there. You can’t quote me on that”. The accord was signed by nearly 200 countries in December 2015 in an attempt to restrict global greenhouse gas emissions and limit global warming to within two degrees Celsius. “The United States of America is still in the Paris Agreement, and we are going to meet and exceed our commitments,” Mr Gore continued. He said: “The United States of America is very seriously moving forward. This train, if you’ll forgive the metaphor, left the station in Paris.” Mr Gore, who gained an Oscar for his 2006 documentary about climate change An Inconvenient Truth , said it was unlikely Germany, Japan, and other American allies would ever succeed in persuading President Trump to reverse his plans to withdraw the Paris climate agreement. The politician, whose world-renowned work in climate change activism with the IPCC gained him the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007,rebuffed President Trump’s declared readiness to re-engage in the 2015 agreement if he gained better terms for US taxpayers and businesses, saying it was merely a “smokescreen”. “It’s a classic political effort to have things both ways. He’s made his decision but he wants to give the other side a faint hope that . . . that he might yet change his mind,” he told Reuters from the sidelines of the 200-nation meeting. “It’s pointless for me to continue trying to persuade him to change his mind,” he said. “Can somebody else? (German) Chancellor Angela Merkel? (Japanese) Prime Minister (Shinzo) Abe? Somebody else? I don’t know. I doubt it.” Syria, the last nation outside the pact, became a signatory of the Paris climate agreement last week.
  24

 24 : COP24_UK224
THE body set up to advise Scottish ministers on how to maximise the social and economic opportunities offered by the move to a carbon neutral economy will make its first recommendations within two years of its inaugural meeting. Environment Secretary Roseanna Cunningham revealed the remit of Scotland’s Just Transition Commission, along with its first members, as she attended the UN climate change Conference of the Parties ( COP24 ) in Katowice, Poland. READ MORE: Pale Blue Dot win Scotland’s first carbon capture contract Professor Jim Skea will chair the commission, whose first members were revealed as Charlie Hartley, a member of 2050 Climate Group that engages with young people in Scotland to take action on climate change; founding director of the University of Strathclyde’s Centre for Energy Policy, Professor Karen Turner; and Tom Shields, CEO of the Spring Rise consultancy. Cunningham said: “We are committed to achieving carbon neutrality while growing a sustainable economy that improves the opportunities, life chances and wellbeing of every citizen of Scotland, and I am absolutely determined that this will be done in a way that is socially inclusive.”That is why I previously announced that Professor Jim Skea would chair a commission to explore how the transition to carbon neutrality can help us meet our other economic and social ambitions. “I am now delighted to confirm the appointment of the commission’s initial members.”We are clear that no-one should be left behind in our move to a carbon neutral economy and that this should deliver fair work, and I look forward to working with the commission over the next two years to make this a reality.” Hartley, as well as being a member of the 2050 Climate Group, works for a firm leading the carbon capture project in Aberdeenshire. The 2050 group’s ambition is to start a social movement of passionate and active young people equipped with climate change knowledge and leadership skills to allow their generation to lead the way to a sustainable, low carbon society. READ MORE: Why climate change is to blame for Brexit Turner’s work focuses on delivering a just transition and addresses key questions about the distributional effects, employment and gross domestic product (GDP). She also has several advisory roles with national and international policy bodies. She plays a leading role in the Royal Society of Edinburgh’s inquiry on Scotland’s Energy Future and leads the Energy, People and Society theme across the Scottish Energy Technology Partnership. Turner is principal investigator on a National Centre for Energy Systems Integration flexible fund project. Shields also sits on the UK Government’s Carbon Capture, Usage and Storage Council and is acting chair of the Chemical Sciences Scotland Industry Leadership Group. The Scottish Government is expected to appoint the commission’s other members in the coming weeks, with representation from industry, business, trade unions, environmental groups and academia.
  25

 25 : COP21_UK188
Small island countries facing flooding from rising sea levels are closing in on a deal with wealthy countries that would see loss and damage support measures included in the HYPERLINK global climate accord to be finalised in Paris this week . Developed countries have been resisting such a move for more than a year, fearing it could make them liable for billions of dollars in compensation. But Miguel Arias Ca’f1ete, EU climate commissioner, told the Financial Times there was now a growing understanding that loss and damage provisions would be included in the Paris agreement, as long as they did not expose wealthy countries to new claims for compensation. A draft text of the agreement was finalised on Saturday. Mr Arias Ca’f1ete said a meeting that Barack Obama, US president, had with five island leaders last week at the Paris talks, known as COP21 , had helped smooth the way for a compromise on what has become one of the more divisive issues in UN climate talks in recent years. I am very glad that the US is showing flexibility because from the very beginning of this process we have supported this concept of course with adequate language [on compensation], he said. But he added: There is one thing that we do not accept and will not accept in this agreement and that is the notion that there should be liability and compensation for loss and damage. That is a line that we can’ t cross. This is not a US-centric position but it is a position that is important for us. It is still unclear what type of loss and damage measures might make it into the final accord that delegates from nearly 200 nations are due to seal this Friday. The draft text of the agreement called for a climate change displacement co-ordination facility to be set up to relocate people affected by the fierce storms and other extreme weather scientists say is more likely as global temperatures rise. The text also says plans to address irreversible and permanent damage resulting from human-induced climate change should be completed within four years. Island country delegates said they were very pleased wealthy countries were no long rejecting outright the notion that their failure to combat global warming meant extra support was needed for small, poor countries facing a threat to their existence. But James Fletcher of St Lucia, the small Caribbean island state, said the question of how to frame loss and damage support in the Paris agreement was still a stumbling block. We believe we already have avenues for liability and compensation under international law and international agreements, he said. The discussion going on right now is a discussion among lawyers. How do we end up with a text that allays the fears of the US, the EU and other countries that we are creating a mechanism for liability and compensation. And how do you address our concern that we do not give up any rights that we presently already have under international agreements. UN climate talks have been held for more than 20 years without managing to produce the deep cuts in global emissions from burning fossil fuels that scientists say are required to avert dangerous levels of global warming. HYPERLINK Listen to the FT News podcast
  26

 26 : COP22_UK289
Mouhcine Fikri was crushed to death in the Moroccan city of Al-Hoceima Shocking footage has emerged of the moment the 31-year-old was killed The horrifying video was captured on a mobile phone by an eyewitness Death has sparked outrage in Morocco and thousands attended his funeral WARNING: GRAPHIC CONTENT~ This is the horrifying moment a market trader was killed in the back of a garbage truck when he tried to sop police destroying banned swordfish in Morocco. Mouhcine Fikri was crushed to death in the northern Moroccan city of Al-Hoceima while he was protesting against authorities seizing and destroying some of his stock. {22420222 Shocking footage has emerged of the moment the 31-year-old was pulled into the lorry’s crushing mechanism amid desperate screams from eyewitnesses. The harrowing clip, taken on a mobile phone, shows what appears to be two men standing in the back of the truck where rubbish is normally thrown in. Seconds later, the camera turns away as one of them is crushed to death. The death of the fishmonger sparked outrage across the country as gruesome pictures emerged of his body. Thousands attended the funeral of the fishmonger amid calls for protests nationwide including in the capital Rabat. Moroccan authorities have vowed to punish those responsible.~ Footage online showed thousands of people following the yellow ambulance that carried Fikri’s body through Al-Hoceima in the ethnically Berber Rif region on Sunday.
{22420222 Interior Minister Mohamed Hassad condemned the incident and vowed that an investigation would be held to ‘determine the exact circumstances of the tragedy and punish those responsible’. ‘No one had the right to treat him like this. . . . We cannot accept officials acting in haste, anger or in conditions that do not respect people’s rights,’ he told AFP. {22420222 The funeral procession was led by a dozen drivers in their cars - including taxis - and marchers waving Berber flags. The ambulance headed to the area of Imzouren some 12 miles southeast of the city, where Fikri was buried in the late afternoon. The circumstances of his death remained unclear. But a human rights activist said that the authorities forced the fishmonger to destroy several boxes of swordfish. Catching swordfish using driftnets is illegal. ‘The goods were worth a lot of money,’ said Fassal Aoussar from the local branch of the Moroccan Association of Human Rights (AMDH). ‘The salesman threw himself in after his fish and was crushed by the machine,’ he said. ‘The whole of the Rif is in shock and boiling over.’~ Long neglected under the father of the current king, the Rif was at the heart of Morocco’s protest movement for change in 2011, dubbed the February 20 movement. Protests continued in Al-Hoceima late Sunday, an AFP reporter said, with protesters shouting: ‘Criminals, assassins, terrorists!’ ‘The people of the Rif won’t be humiliated!’ The crowd eventually dispersed around 9.30pm without incident. {22420222 Thousands of demonstrators - including activists for Berber rights - also gathered in Rabat, chanting ‘We are all Mouhcine!’. Smaller protests were held in several other Rif towns and, unusually, in Casablanca and Marrakesh. In a statement on Sunday, the AMDH condemned the state for
‘having trampled on the dignity of citizens since the ferocious repression of the February 20 movement and keeping the region in a state of tension’. It warned of a ‘possible repeat’ of the 2011 protests in the Rif, just a week before Morocco starts hosting international climate talks. King Mohammed VI has ordered a ‘thorough and exhaustive investigation’ into Fikri’s death and the ‘prosecution of whoever is found responsible’, an interior ministry statement said. The king - who was in Zanzibar on a tour of East Africa - sent the interior minister to ‘present his condolences’ to Fikri’s family, it said. It was the self-immolation of a street vendor in Tunisia in late 2010 in protest at police harassment that sparked Tunisia’s revolution and the Arab Spring uprisings across the rest of the region the next year. Morocco is due to host the COP22 climate talks in Marrakesh from November 7 to 18.
  27

 27 : COP26_UK299
THE COP26 climate summit is due to end today, with negotiators scrambling to salvage a significant deal on reducing global carbon emissions. Cop26 president Alok Sharma yesterday warned “time is running out” in Glasgow for the 180 countries at the summit to agree to a deal. While the summit will officially end today, Boris Johnson indicated negotiations could stretch into the weekend as happened in previous years. China and the US, the globe’s two largest CO2 emitters, on Wednesday agreed to team up to phase out fossil fuels in an unexpected deal. Pundits have said the deal provides hope that China could come to the table and agree to a deal to strengthen commitments made in the 2015 Paris Climate Accord. Sharma said proposals over reducing fossil fuel subsidies and accelerating reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are still crucial stumbling blocks. “Whilst we have made progress we are not there yet on the most critical issues. There is still a lot more work to be done - time is running out,” he said. “As I speak my ministerial facilitators and negotiators are rolling up their sleeves and working hard to find solutions to some of the most intractable issues.” The draft text of the Cop26 deal notes “with serious concern” that existing global agreements are insufficient to keep global warming to 1.5 degrees. The draft, which sets out what negotiators hope will be the outcome of Cop26 , asks countries to “revisit and strengthen the 2030 targets in their nationally determined contributions, as necessary to align with the Paris Agreement temperature goal by the end of 2022”. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  28

 28 : COP25_UK288
Halting overfishing and the HYPERLINK plastic pollution of the oceans could help tackle the climate emergency by improving the degraded state of the world’s biggest carbon sink, a report has found. The oceans absorb both the excess heat generated by our greenhouse gas emissions, and absorb carbon dioxide itself, helping to reduce the impacts of climate chaos. But we are rapidly HYPERLINK reaching the limits of the oceans’ absorptive capacity as our pillage of marine life is disrupting vital ecosystems and the natural carbon cycle. Creating ocean sanctuaries and forging a new treaty to protect the oceans, with a target of safeguarding at least 30% of the oceans by 2030, could restore many areas to health and combat global heating, according to the report entitled Hot Water: the climate crisis and the urgent need for ocean protection, published by Greenpeace International on Wednesday. HYPERLINK Phytoplankton such as algae, for instance, transform dissolved carbon dioxide into organic carbon, which then forms part of the food chain. Gradually some of this sinks to the sea bottom where it is buried in sediment. Without the ~ HYPERLINK biological carbon pump Krill - small crustaceans - also form a vital part of the carbon cycle in the seas as they move through levels of the ocean, and play a big role in the diet of larger species. But krill populations have been in HYPERLINK long-term decline since the 1970s Marine life at the other end of the scale also plays an important role. Large baleen whales are estimated to store 910m tonnes less carbon than they did before commercial whaling began, Greenpeace noted, while working to rebuild key whale populations would remove 160,000 tonnes of carbon every year. “The ocean’s biology is one of our best allies in the fight against climate change,” said Louisa Casson, oceans campaigner at Greenpeace UK. “But over-exploitation and our addiction to fossil fuels have pushed our ocean to the brink of collapse. Ocean protection is climate action - if we can save our ocean, it can save us.” The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change recently HYPERLINK highlighted the perils the oceans face from climate chaos , in its first report to focus solely on the marine environment. That also sounded the alarm over ocean ~ acidification . The seas are now about 26% more acidic than in pre-industrial times, with damaging impacts on shellfish in particular. Oceans are scheduled to be a key topic at the UN climate change meeting in Madrid, where governments are now discussing progress on the Paris climate change agreement. COP25 , as the meeting is known, was scheduled to take place in Chile, a country with a coastline that stretches for more than 4,000 km and has a heavy reliance on the oceans. But political unrest meant COP25 was HYPERLINK moved from Santiago to Protecting the oceans can also help make coastal communities more resilient against the impacts of climate chaos. Mangroves and coral reefs can act as a barrier to storm surges, yet mangrove swamps are being destroyed to make way for commercial fisheries, and coral reefs are being bleached by rising temperatures. Stopping the cycle of destruction could help reduce the impacts of sea level rises and the fiercer storms expected to arise from global heating. Greenpeace also called for a ban on deep-sea mining, made economically feasible by technological innovation but which remains largely unregulated. This article was amended on 4 December 2019 because krill are crustaceans, not a species of fish as an earlier version said. This has been corrected.
  29

 29 : COP21_UK353
Click here for full-size image epa05048313 Britain’s Prince Charles (C) poses with French Minister of Ecology, Sustainable Development and Energy Segolene Royal (3-L), and French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius (R) upon his arrival for the opening of the UN conference on climate change COP21 , at Le Bourget, outside Paris, 30 November 2015. Others are not identified. The 21st Conference of the Parties ( COP21 ) is held in Paris from 30 November to 11 December aimed at reaching an international agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions and curtail climate change. EPA/LOIC VENANCE / POOL MAXPPP OUT IMAGE ID: EPALIVE926279 HYPERLINK Subject to copyright. Click here for information regarding redistribution of this image.
  30

 30 : COP23_UK171
One year after the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on climate change, the Bonn Conference, which opens on 6 November in Germany, will be an opportunity for nations around the world to show their ambition for climate action and their determination to keep their promises. “While Paris represented one of those moments where the best of humanity achieved an agreement so important to our collective futures, Bonn represents how we will move forward to fulfill its promise”, said the Executive Secretary of United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Patricia Espinosa, on the margins of a ministerial meeting in Fiji on 17 October 2017 to prepare for the Bonn Conference of the Convention’s States Parties. “We are running out of time to turn things around. To do so, we must significantly increase our efforts to reduce emissions and our carbon footprints,” she added. The Paris Agreement, which was adopted by the 196 Parties to the UNFCCC in December 2015 in the French capital after which it is named, calls on countries to combat climate change by limiting the rise of global temperature below 2 degrees Celsius and strive not to exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius. A year ago, the Marrakech Climate Conference concluded with the Marrakech Action Proclamation, for our climate and sustainable development, in which the UNFCCC States Parties affirmed their “commitment” to the “full implementation” of the Paris Agreement. Today, 169 Parties have ratified the Agreement. At the Bonn Conference, informally known as COP 23 , countries will seek to move forward in completing the rule book for operationalizing the Paris Agreement. The Conference, which runs until 17 November, is chaired by Fiji, an island State particularly affected by the impacts of climate change. “Never has our work been more necessary. We see this with respect to the extreme weather events affecting almost every continent throughout the world,” said Ms. Espinosa. COP 23 President and Fiji Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama agrees. “We can no longer ignore this crisis. Whether it is fires in California, Portugal and Spain. Flooding in Nigeria, India and Bangladesh. The dramatic Arctic melt. Ice breaking off the continent of Antarctica. The recent hurricanes that devastated the Caribbean and the southern United States [. . . ] It’s hard to find any part of the world that is unaffected by these events”, he said at the ministerial meeting in Fiji. Bonn Conference an opportunity to boost climate risk management efforts In an op-ed published in October 2017, Ms. Espinosa, alongside the Administrator of the UN Development Programme (UNDP), Achim Steiner, and the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Disaster Risk Reduction, Robert Glasser, said the Bonn Conference “provides an opportunity to not only accelerate emission reductions but also boost the serious work of ensuring that the management of climate risk is integrated into disaster risk management as a whole.” A week before the opening of the Bonn Conference, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) announced that the levels of carbon dioxide (C02) surged at
“record-breaking speed” to new highs in 2016. The Bonn Conference will feature a series of meetings and events, including the high-level segment, on 15 November and 16 November, attended by Heads of State and Government, Ministers, and UN Secretary-General Ant’f3nio Guterres. Mr. Guterres has invited leaders to consider championing six high-impact areas at a special Climate Summit in 2019. These areas are investment in clean technology, maturing carbon pricing, enabling the energy transition, risk mitigation and building resilience, augmenting the contribution of sub-national actors and business and mobilizing climate finance. “Increasing ambition is the only way to keep the global temperature rise well below 2 degrees Celsius this century, and as close to 1.5 degree as possible. By focusing on these sectors, we can substantially reduce the gap between where we are and where we need to be,” said UN Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed, at the pre-COP meeting in Fiji. Among the side events scheduled at COP 23 , several will be organized under the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action to show how cities, regions, private sector companies and investors are trying to implement the Paris Agreement in the areas of energy, water, agriculture, oceans and coastal areas, human settlements, transportation, industry, and forests. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  31

 31 : COP25_UK339
“The reality is much more boring”: not Finkelstein’s everyday attire. Photo: PA What was your highlight of 2019? Being given the opportunity to lead the Defra Group as permanent secretary must rank as one of the highlights of my year. The responsibilities of Defra are so wide-ranging, so to learn more I kicked off a campaign called Defra Group in 100 Objects, asking people throughout the group to identify items that shape our work - the finger bone of a blue whale, a drone to measure river flow, our rainbow lanyard proudly displaying our diversity. These items and the skills and commitment of the people who chose them are another highlight. What has been the most significant change in your organisation this year? Defra has changed in size and shape as we have made preparations for leaving the European Union. Colleagues from other departments have joined our teams following a call for volunteers across the civil service. We have become expert at bringing new people into our teams, welcoming them and training them up. We have learned so much about moving at pace while looking after each other, boosted by our grassroots “be kind” campaign. “We will continue to make changes so that we can leave the environment in a better place than we found it” What will be the biggest challenge of 2020 - and how are you preparing to meet it? UN conference on climate change hosted by the UK in Glasgow at the end of the year. Tell us a favourite festive memory from your youth. . . Some years ago, I worked in a team that put on an annual Christmas panto with a script brilliantly written by a team member, including topical references to ministers and political events. I was given the role of Prince Charming and decided to invest in a hired costume, which was a pink velvet brocade suit with white stockings and gold cocked hat. I decided to take my three-year-old daughter along. She was terrified and started crying, so I had to complete my performance with her in my arms. A few months later we were talking about my work and she said: “I know what you do, you are Prince Charming in the panto.” I realised that she thought I went in each day and put on my pink suit. . . the reality is so much more boring!
  32

 32 : COP22_UK169
A decades-old tax system may offer an economical solution to the problem of catastrophic climate change, a new study shows. A consumer tax levy on fossil fuels could provide a means of lowering their use or encouraging the adoption of cleaner alternatives, the research suggests. Such a system - adopted from a tool devised by the economist Arthur Pigou in the 1920s - could help avert dangerously high global temperatures and sea level rises. Current economic policies for reducing the use of fossil fuels are unlikely to be as effective, the study finds. Global talks The results emerge ahead of the upcoming COP22 The proposed levy - known as a Pigouvian tax - would offer a way to balance the competing needs of supporting economies while at the same time limiting the impact of man-made greenhouse gas emissions on the environment. A key facet of the carbon levy is that all revenue would be recycled directly to households. The policy would likely encourage the development of green technologies, and reduce consumption. Such a system has been successfully introduced in British Columbia, Canada. Economic model Researchers at the University of Edinburgh, who carried out the study, designed a simple, readily understandable model of climate economics. They took into account the costs to society of climate change, the costs of adopting new technology, how the climate is likely to respond to change, and future changes in costs. They found that under existing economic policy conditions, global temperatures are likely to continue to rise strongly this century. This is the case even when future greenhouse gas emissions are moderated in the most cost-effective way possible, with strategies that seek to optimise reductions in the use of fossil fuels. The research, published in Anthropocene Review, also show that global temperatures exceeded 1.5C above pre-industrial levels five months after the Paris Climate Agreement. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  33

 33 : COP25_UK14
The world’s largest investors with more than $37 trillion of assets under management have asked governments to introduce carbon taxes and to phase out fossil-fuel subsidies to tackle climate change. A group of 631 institutions, from Aviva, Schroders and Legal & General to Californian and Canadian state pension schemes, has said that urgent policy action is needed for the investment in green industries that will keep the world within the Paris agreement targets on global warming. The intervention comes halfway through the COP25 United Nations climate change conference “The global shift to clean energy is under way, but much more needs to be done by governments to accelerate the low-carbon transition and to improve the resilience of our economy, society and the financial system to climate risks,” the group wrote in a joint statement. “It is vital that policymakers are firmly committed to achieving the goals of the Paris agreement.” The Paris agreement aims to keep “the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2C above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C”. It was struck in December 2015 and 184 countries have made pledges to cut their emissions; however, 136 are of those are judged to be “totally inadequate”, according to the Universal Ecological Fund. Britain and the rest of the European Union are among those whose plans are deemed sufficient. The institutions want “governments to phase out thermal coal power, put a meaningful price on carbon pollution [and] end subsidies for fossil fuels”. Present national plans “would lead to an unacceptably high temperature increase that would cause substantial negative economic impacts”, they said.
  34

 34 : COP23_UK118
“We are witnessing the severe impacts of climate change throughout the world”, said the Executive Secretary of UN Climate Change, Patricia Espinosa, at a press conference. “Every credible scientific source is telling us that these impacts will only get worse if we do not address climate change and it also tells us that our window of time for addressing it is closing very soon,” she added. “We need to dramatically increase our ambitions,” stressed the UNFCCC chief, outlining three priorities. First, all stakeholders - including governments, non-governmental organizations, businesses, investors and citizens - must accelerate climate action by 2020. Second, she said, the international community must complete the Paris Agreement guidelines, or operating manual, to unleash the potential of the accord. Third, conditions must be improved to enable countries to be more ambitious in determining their own national policies to slow down global warming. At the UN Climate Change Conference ( COP23 ) held last November under the leadership of Fiji, nations agreed to accelerate and complete their work to put in place the guidelines - officially known as the Paris Agreement Work Programme (PAWP) - at COP24 in Katowice, Poland next December. At this Bonn meeting, which will run through 10 May, Governments will start drafting texts to be finalized at COP24. Finishing off the operating manual is also necessary to assess whether the world is on track to achieve the goals of the historic Paris Agreement limiting greenhouse gas emissions, while pursuing efforts to keep the temperature rise to less than 1.5’b0C. Throughout this year, countries will also focus on how they can scale up their climate ambition and implementation in the pre-2020 period. All countries share the view that climate action prior to 2020 is essential. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  35

 35 : COP25_UK335
The world’s most polluting companies could be sued for their contributions to global warming, a major human rights inquiry has found in what has been described as a “landmark victory for climate justice”. The head of a Philippines Commission on Human Rights panel, which has been investigating climate change for three years, revealed its conclusions on Monday that major fossil fuel firms may be held legally responsible for the impacts of their carbon emissions. The announcement was made by commissioner Roberto Cadiz during COP25 HYPERLINK international climate talks Its final report, which has yet to be published, will say that these companies have clear legal and moral responsibilities to act, which includes shifting away from fossil fuels and investing in cleaner energy sources. He noted that a growing number of cases related to climate change are now being filed in courts across the world “and with the conclusion of this investigation, we believe many more communities will take a stand against fossil fuel companies that are putting profit before people”. ExxonMobil, for example, one of the world’s largest oil and gas firms, has faced multiple legal challenges from US states and shareholders who claim it misled investors and the public over the real risks of climate change. And in Germany, utility firm RWE is being sued by Peruvian farmer and mountain guide Sa’fal Luciano Lliuya whose home is at risk from a melting glacier. The human rights implications of climate change cannot be avoided during the ongoing talks in Madrid, but observers fear that attempts to include human rights protections in the HYPERLINK finer details of the Paris Agreement are failing . In September the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet HYPERLINK described the climate crisis Greta Thunberg stands during a press conference with Fridays For Future movement at the COP25 Climate Conference on Monday (Getty Images) On Tuesday, a group of young people including Swedish teenage activist Greta Thunberg will send a letter to the prime ministers of Norway and Canada accusing them of violating children’s rights by supporting new oil and gas development. They had already lodged a HYPERLINK petition with the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child in September, saying Argentina, Brazil, France, Germany and Turkey are perpetuating the climate crisis by failing to curb emissions and promoting fossil fuels. During her first official appearance at the talks, Thunberg also sought to draw attention to the plight of Indigenous Peoples and other vulnerable groups by handing the microphone over to a diverse panel of young people. Activists from Indigenous backgrounds and developing nations, who are disproportionately at risk from climate change despite contributing little to global carbon emissions, feel their stories have been sidelined in political discussions and the wider media. Angela Valenzuela, an activist from Chile, which was originally due to host the talks, said she had found it
“outrageous” that her government had tried to clean up its image in Madrid “while committing human rights violations every day”. “While countries congratulate each other for their weak commitments the world is literally burning out,” she said. “But we are courageous. We continue to flood the streets, even if we are risking our lives.”
  36

 36 : COP22_UK100
THE United Nations came to Cardiff last week when students from across Wales took part in a mock United Nations conference on climate change. Students from across the country joined the debate and represented countries such as Brazil, USA, the Philippines and Saudi Arabia. The conference, run annually by Size of Wales in partnership with Welsh Centre for International Affairs, gives young people an opportunity to discuss the issue of climate change from the perspective of world leaders. Topics discussed ranged from clean energy, protecting rainforests, disaster management and how to finance these. “The conference encourages young people to be more engaged with climate change and political issues” said Janie Pridham, education officer at Size of Wales. “It also helps them develop understanding of other nations and cultures and to consider the responsibility of Wales, both locally and globally.” She added: “The standard of debate was extremely high this year.”It was wonderful to see the students take on their roles in such a realistic way. “Some delegates were quoting Trump and there was even a smear campaign between countries.” The aim of the day was for delegates to agree an international resolution on the issue of climate change, similar to the UN climate change COP22 talks that were held in Marrakesh in November. This year Sophie Howe, the Future Generations Commissioner, joined the event, acting as the secretary general and presiding over teams of three pupils representing 20 countries and organisations. “The bright, engaged young people I met today not only understand the critical point we have reached in terms of tackling climate change but understand that it is they who will be experiencing the positive or negative impact of our actions today.” the Commissioner said. “If we continue to give them a voice and an opportunity to influence, it gives me hope that there is a better future for everyone in Wales and that we will be a nation that makes a positive contribution to global wellbeing.” Size of Wales is a unique initiative which is helping to protect an area of rainforest twice the size of Wales as part of a national response to climate change. MOCKCOP is a highlight in its education programme, which also offers free workshops and assemblies to schools across Wales. The event was sponsored by Jenny Rathbone AM.
  37

 37 : COP22_UK132
September 23, 2016 The Kingdom of Morocco has officially submitted a request to accede to the African Union (AU) Constitutive Act, and therefore, become a Member of the Union NEW YORK, United States of America – The Kingdom of Morocco has officially submitted a request to accede to the African Union (AU) Constitutive Act, and therefore, become a Member of the Union. An Adviser to King Mohammed VI on Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Morocco, H.E. Taieb Fassi Fihri, informed the Commission Chairperson, Dr. Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, when they met, on 22 September 2016, in a bilateral meeting in the margin of the 71st Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). The Adviser informed the Chairperson that Morocco had submitted the letter of intent on Thursday, 22 September 2016, in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. He also handed a copy to the Chairperson. Acknowledging receipt, the Chairperson advised the Envoy that due process will be followed, including officially informing Member States, as per the provisions of the AU Constitutive Act. The Kingdom of Morocco will be officially notified of the outcome. The King’s Adviser on Foreign Affairs also informed the Chairperson of plans underway to host COP22 , which is scheduled to take place in Marrakech in 2017. Distributed by APO on behalf of African Union Commission
(AUC).
  38

 38 : COP21_UK104
NGOs Seas At Risk and Transport and Environment (T&E) have warned that achieving the Paris climate target of limiting global warming to 1.5 / 2’b0C will be impossible unless Europe and the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) ratify measures to curb shipping emissions. An EU study revealed that shipping could account for 17% of the global emission of carbon dioxide (CO2) in 2050 if the sector is not subjected to strict emissions measures. According to the International Maritime Organisation (IMO), carbon emissions from international maritime shipping could increase by 250% in the period up to 2050 if left unchecked. Currently, the sector constitutes 3% of global CO2 emissions, which is higher than those of Canada, Brazil, Indonesia, Mexico, France or the UK. The IMO is said to have failed to take stock of the shipping industry’s growing contribution to the emission of greenhouse gases on a global level. IMO secretary-general Koji Sekimizu had earlier in September 2015 attributed the failure to the rapidly growing world industries which mostly do not comply with the environmental standards. However, measures are being taken to address the issue which is believed to have started with the appointment of a new secretary general to head the IMO. T&E shipping officer Sotiris Raptis said: “We welcome the new IMO secretary-general, who is coming to office at a key moment following the Paris agreement.”We are sure Secretary-General Kitack Lim fully understands the need for the IMO to act now. “The EU, in parallel, needs to include shipping in its 2030 reduction commitment now and in the EU ETS or in an EU climate fund from 2021.” During the climate agreement negotiated at the United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP 21 ) in Le Bourget, Paris, in December last year, international shipping industry along with the aviation sector was excluded from discussion to introduce measures to tame global warming. Seas At Risk senior policy advisor John Maggs said:
“There is no reasonable excuse to continue exempting the sector from the global and EU climate policies.”That shipping needs to make its fair share of cuts to keep global warming well below two degrees is not negotiable after Paris.” Image: Shipping emissions: the elephant in the room as the new IMO secretary-general meets with EU Commissioners in Brussels. Photo: courtesy of T&E.
  39

 39 : COP25_UK2
MADRID, Spain – What: Africa Day When: 10 December 2019 Where: Room 3, Hall 4 at IFEMA Conference Centre, Madrid Time: 18:30 to 20:00 Who: Jointly organized by the African Union Commission, African Development Bank (AfDB.org), and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa Officials, experts, activists and journalists are invited to take part and cover the Africa Day at the COP25 conference in Madrid on 10 December 2019, in room 3 at the IFEMA Conference Centre. During this event, leaders will provide an update of the global commitments made at the world’s leading climate change meeting. Africa Day marks Africa’s presence and participation at the various United Nations Climate Change Conference (UNFCCC) sessions since COP 17. Africa Day provides a platform for the continent’s decision makers and other stakeholders to engage in a dialogue that informs the region’s course of action around climate change. The discussions will touch on effective means of implementation (finance, capacity building, and technology development and transfer) of the Paris Agreement. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). Media Contacts: African Union Esther Azaa Tankou Head of Information Division Directorate of Information and Communication African Union Commission Email: HYPERLINK mailto:YambouE@africa-union.org YambouE@africa-union.org African Development Bank Gershwin Wanneburg Communication and External Relations Department African Development Bank Email: HYPERLINK mailto:g.wanneburg@afdb.org g.wanneburg@afdb.org Pan-African Parliament Ntsiuoa Sekete Senior Communications and Media Officer Pan-African Parliament Email: HYPERLINK mailto:ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  40

 40 : COP25_UK133
Speech to text transcript: 1~ This copy is computer generated. Text will vary in accuracy due to speaker dialect and audio quality issues. than what you believe? Good morning, I’m Nicky Campbell. Welcome to The Big Questions. Today we’re live from the Oasis Academy MediaCityUK in Salford. Welcome, everybody, to The Big Questions. On Tuesday, the Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, declared that 2020 would be a “defining year of climate action” for the planet. The UK Citizen’s Climate Assembly has its second meeting this weekend to consider how the UK will meet and producers alike, grants towards buying electric cars are likely to be scrapped by the end of March, while at the same time the government is bringing forward a ban on new petrol and diesel vehicles from 2040 to 2035. And the 2020 United Nations Climate Change Conference - COP26 - to be held in Glasgow this November, still doesn’t have anyone willing to chair it. The list of those who have turned it down so far reads like a Who’s Who of British politics. There are confusing choices facing every one of us. Free capitalist societies thrive on choice. Will capitalism save the planet? Matthew from the Adam Smith Institute, I’m going to start with the words of the profit, if I may, David Attenborough. He said, anyone who thinks you can have infinite growth in a finite environment is either a madman or an economist. You are an economist. It can’t happen, it’s impossible. It defies logic. In 1798, Thomas Malthus told at best – told us that in 100 years would be starving because there were not enough resources to feed enough people. What has happened since? We have grown seven times bigger as a population and malnourishment is at record lows. The way we prosper is through innovation, through a system that enables us to get more from less, so about 20 years ago the UK reached peak stuff. We are getting more economic growth while using less material goods, and it’s the same in the US. If you take the case of agriculture, we are producing more food using less fertiliser, pollute less. Capitalists, they are not doing it out of the good of
  41
