 1 : COP22_UK342
Ahead of the 22nd Conference of the Parties ( COP 22 These changes have been incorporated into the Group’ s sector policies on Mining and Coal-Fuelled Power Plants. The sector policies set out the framework governing the financial services Societe Generale offers in the business sectors in which it operates. The bank will also scale back its outstanding loans to the coal industry, with a goal of reducing the proportion of coal-fuelled share in power production financed by the bank to 19% by 2020, in line with the International Energy Agency’ s 2-degree scenario. The shift in the energy mix will also result from increased financing for renewable energies. Societe Generale is continuing to ramp up project financing in this sector. In 2015, it announced it was doubling project financing in the renewable energy sector, with a €10 billion of funding allocated to the renewable energy sector by 2020. In 2016 Societe Generale maintained its position among the world leaders in this area. For example, it was involved in 100% of offshore wind farm projects financed in Europe this year. Severin Cabannes, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Societe Generale said A year after the pledges we made for COP 21, these latest decisions mark a new step forward for the bank in favour of the climate. They reflect Societe Generale’ s commitment to responsible financing as a way of developing a low-carbon economy. With a long-standing and established presence in the energy sector, the bank intends to be a major financer of the energy transition and undertakes to support its clients in this necessary area.
  2

 2 : COP25_UK248
Ellen Matupi didn’t cause the climate emergency, but she’s now on its frontline. “The emergency is now, disasters are happening now, and we want relief now. When I don’t get a good crop, I will not put food on my table for my children.” As a subsistence farmer from Malawi’s northern district of Rumphi, the global climate negotiations are normally very far from Ellen’s mind; she has much more immediate challenges. But this year she’s travelled more than 5,000 miles to COP25 - the UN climate talks in Madrid - to raise her voice and to speak for millions more who can’t be here. “In Malawi, we are still farming using hoes; it’s a back-breaking exercise. It is so hard. The soils have become harder than before.”Farming is unpredictable these days. We have a number of problems like droughts and floods.” In Malawi, the vast majority of people are smallholder farmers who depend on rain-fed agriculture to survive. Earlier this year, floods induced by Cyclone Idai affected many parts of southern Malawi damaging houses and crops. Across Zimbabwe, Malawi and Mozambique more than 1,000 people were killed. Alongside reducing emissions faster, boosting support for countries on the frontlines of the climate emergency is at the top of the agenda at COP25 , which was relocated from Chile amid civil unrest over growing levels of economic inequality. At the core of the climate negotiations is a deep-rooted injustice: the poorest half of humanity - 3.5 billion people - are responsible for 10 per cent of carbon emissions yet are being hit first and worst by a crisis they did little to cause. In contrast, the richest 10 per cent produce around half of global emissions. Rich countries promised $100 billion a year by 2020 to help poor countries cut their emissions and adapt to a changing climate. “2020 is just around the corner,” said Ellen. “We will see if their promises are true or not, but so far we’re not being helped.” Just $71.2bn was mobilised in 2017 - though this over-states actual support by a huge margin, with most of the funds given in the form of loans that need to be paid back, double counting, and too little of it committed to help people adapt. Worse still, due to slow emission reductions, climate impacts are increasingly going way beyond what it is possible to adapt to. Rich countries must therefore do more to pay off their ever-growing climate debt by helping poorer countries rebuild towns and rehome communities after climate disasters. Take Scotland. On top of our historic emissions, even if we achieve our welcome new net zero emissions by 2045 as per our new climate change law, our past and present emissions will continue to make the climate emergency worse. Scotland can’t look away. While it is not a formal party to the Paris Agreement, unlike the UK, Scotland’s Cabinet Secretary for Climate Change Roseanna Cunningham is at COP25 in Madrid amid growing calls for increased action. Scotland can be proud of our early commitment to climate justice, but now is the time to increase this example. With just 11 months until the world’s climate talks in Glasgow, Scotland must rapidly reduce its emissions. But we must also renew our commitment to helping the world’s poorest countries adapt to this crisis. Having declared a “climate emergency”, the Scottish Government must now identify ways to boost our Scottish Climate Justice Fund by identifying new sources of revenue and then ensuring it reaches communities being devastated right now. And we must go further by introducing ring-fenced additional funding to support those facing unavoidable loss and damage. By innovatively using the Scottish Parliament’s revenue-raising powers, Scotland can set a powerful example ahead of COP26 in Glasgow that more funding can be secured without raiding existing international development budgets. “Scotland is already supporting Malawi. They should continue, and perhaps add some more,” Ellen said. “My message to all world leaders is they should keep their promise that they will provide climate finance for adaptation, as well as for loss and damage.” Jamie Livingstone, Head of Oxfam Scotland; Alistair Dutton, Chief Executive, SCIAF; Sally Fulton Foster, Head of Christian Aid Scotland; Kat Jones, Coalition Manager, Stop Climate Chaos Scotland
  3

 3 : COP23_UK176
Oxfam report on climate change and migration - released ahead of the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Bonn (6-17 Nov) Event Start Date: 2017-11-02 Event End Date: 2017-11-02 Event URL: /
  4

 4 : COP21_UK269
PRIME Minister David Cameron will be joining other world leaders in Paris tomorrow for the start of the United Nations Climate Change Conference , amid fierce criticism of cuts to green energy support in the UK. Climate change supporters and political opponents have questioned whether the Government will be able to reach its low-carbon targets, after it announced plans to scale back a number of energy-saving measures in the Autumn Statement and cancelled a £31 billion carbon capture and storage tender. Adding more fuel to the fire, it emerged on Thursday that the Government has taken back from councils the final say on fracking applications, solidifying its pledge to go “all out” for environmentally unfriendly - but potentially lucrative - shale gas. Left-leaning think tank IPPR said: “It is difficult to see what the Government’s strategy is for meeting the climate change targets the Prime Minister signed into law.” Prince Charles and US President Barack Obama will also be present in Paris for the talks, which last until December 11, with the aim of securing a global agreement to tackle climate change. However, getting wealthy and developing nations to agree is difficult. While the Government’s official line is that it is
“committed to getting a global deal in Paris”, it is understood that privately it is not expecting a solution at the conference, seeing it more as an “important step” than an “endgame”.
  5

 5 : COP25_UK6
HYPERLINK An official delegation from the European Parliament will take part in the UN conference on climate change , the COP25 , in Madrid in Spain this week from today until 14 December. The delegation is led by Bas Eickhout (Greens/EFA, NL), with Peter Liese (EPP, DE) as Vice-Chair. The delegation is set to meet with UNFCCC Executive Secretary Patricia Espinosa, IPCC Chair Hoesung Lee, delegates from several non-EU countries as well as civil society representatives. A press conference with delegation Chair, Bas Eickhout
(Greens/EFA, NL), and Commission Vice-President Frans Timmermans is scheduled to take place on 12 December 14.30-15.00 (TBC). On Thursday 12 December at 12.30, Parliament is hosting a side event in the EU Pavilion focusing on the need to make all countries’ Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) more ambitious and on the role that forests play in reaching the Paris target. Quote “I am glad that the European Parliament delegation has come to Madrid with a very clear mandate: The EU has to increase its National Determined Contribution to minus 55% greenhouse gas emission in 2030 compared to 1990, and become climate neutral by 2050 at the latest,” says Bas Eickhout (Greens/EFA, NL), Chair of the delegation. “While technical issues are very important, the most important thing is to continue to work for the common goal, in spite of Donald Trump’s withdrawal from the Paris Agreement. I very much support Ursula von der Leyen’s initiative to have an international alliance to increase ambition in the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). Developments in China, India, South Africa and Canada show that if we act in the right way, we are not the only ones that can be more ambitious.” says Peter Liese (EPP, DE), Vice-Chair of the delegation. More information Media enquiries should be directed to Thomas Haahr, European Parliament Press Officer accompanying the delegation, or for audio-visual enquiries to Charlotte Du Rietz (contact details below). Background On 28 November 2019, the European Parliament declared a climate emergency in Europe and globally. MEPs also asked for all relevant EU legislative and budgetary proposals to be fully aligned with the objective of limiting global warming to under 1.5 ’b0C. On the same day, Parliament also approved a resolution on the COP25 , urging the EU to commit to reaching climate neutrality as soon as possible (and no later than 2050) and to submit this goal to the UN Convention on Climate Change. MEPs also urged EU countries to at least double their contributions to the international Green Climate Fund. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  6

 6 : COP22_UK391
November 8, 2016 At the UNFCCC Climate Conference ( COP 22 ), in Marrakesh, the International Chamber of Shipping (ICS) said that the recent International Maritime Organization (IMO) agreement on a CO2 Road Map for shipping is a significant decision giving further impetus to the substantial CO2 reductions that are already being delivered by the global industry. At an official UNFCCC side event organised by IMO today, ICS Director of Policy and External Relations, Simon Bennett, said: “We are very optimistic that initial CO2 reduction objectives can now be developed by IMO for the sector by 2018. The shipping industry thinks these should reflect the spirit and ambition of the Paris Agreement while being appropriate to the circumstances that apply to international shipping - just as the commitments made by governments to UNFCCC reflect the circumstances of different national economies.” ICS says that the IMO Road Map (agreed by the IMO Marine Environment Protection Committee at the end of October) will build on the mandatory CO2 reduction regulations for shipping already adopted by IMO - four years before the Paris Agreement was adopted - which will ensure that ships built after 2025 will be at least 30% more efficient. However, ICS believes the IMO Road Map will actually will go much further than the Paris Agreement. “The final stage to be enacted by 2023 should establish a global mechanism for ensuring that these initial IMO commitments - which the industry wants to see agreed by 2018 - will actually be delivered.” said Mr Bennett. ICS says this IMO mechanism could potentially include a legally binding Market Based Measure. “This remains very controversial and is not yet universally supported throughout the shipping industry” said Mr Bennett.
“But if this is what governments eventually decide, the clear preference of the majority of the industry would be for a global levy based on fuel consumption.” Mr Bennett added “Key to next steps is the mandatory global CO2 data collection system which IMO has now adopted. This will enable any initial CO2 commitments agreed in 2018 to be further refined using the very latest data on ships’ emissions which will become fully available from 2019.”But most importantly, the IMO data system will inform the development of a mechanism by IMO for ensuring that agreed CO2 reduction commitments are indeed fully met. This will no doubt include deciding the extent to which technical and operational measures alone might be insufficient to deliver the IMO CO2 reduction commitments that we hope will be initially agreed in 2018.” ICS says that the international shipping sector actually reduced its total CO2 emissions by more than 10% between 2007 and 2012, despite an increase in maritime trade - while the rest of the world economy, even taking account of the commitments made in Paris - will probably continue increasing emissions at least until the 2030s. “But the shipping industry fully recognises that society expects more, and we therefore think it is vital that IMO Member States agree some truly ambitious CO2 reduction commitments by 2018.” said Mr Bennett. ICS and its member national shipowners’ associations expect to come forward with some firm ideas about what these IMO CO2 reduction commitments might entail before the next IMO Marine Environment Protection Committee meeting in 2017. Notes To Editors: o The International Chamber of Shipping (ICS) is the principal international trade association for shipowners and operators, concerned with all technical, legal employment affairs and policy issues that may affect international shipping. ICS membership comprises national shipowners’ associations in Asia, Europe and the Americas whose member shipping companies operate over 80% of the world’s merchant tonnage.
  7

 7 : COP22_UK338
As the world descends on Morocco for the annual United Nations climate conference, the host nation is championing an unlikely hero: African agriculture. After launching the ambitious HYPERLINK Adaptation of African Agriculture A HYPERLINK new study out this week led by the ~ HYPERLINK International Fund for Agricultural Development shows that Morocco’ s approach may well be on the right track. It confirms that investment in climate-sensitive approaches for smallholder farmers can more than double farmer incomes - meaning directing climate funding for adaptation in African agriculture would make both climate and economic sense. However, Africa currently only attracts around 5 per cent of climate funding. This is despite the fact that six of the 10 countries most affected by climate change are in Africa, and every single African nation that submitted climate adaptation strategies to the UNFCCC in Paris last year, included agriculture in its plans. The political will exists. So what are the most effective approaches that climate funds could invest in to bolster Africa’ s key economic activity? The AAA initiative focuses on three areas for investment. The first is sustainable soil management. As much as HYPERLINK 65 per cent of soils in Africa are estimated to be degraded and unfit for growing the food crops that are needed. Ethiopia is leading the way on this issue, having created a ~ HYPERLINK digital soil map of the entire country. Thanks to this project led by the Ethiopian Agricultural Transformation Agency, it is now possible to detect which soils in which region are deficient in which minerals. Custom-made fertilizers are now recommended at a local level and crops yields are increasing by 65 per cent, when they are used with other recommended improved crop and soil management practices. Climate risk reduction is the second pillar of AAA. The award winning work of the HYPERLINK Index Based Livestock Insurance Improved water management is the final pillar of Morocco’ s AAA initiative. Around 70 per cent of freshwater is directed to agricultural use. Improvements in efficiency will not only give Africa more crop per drop of water, but free up water for other sectors at the same time. In Benin and Togo, water management techniques that have shown success in Asia’ s rice fields have been successfully adapted to West Africa by farmers working closely with scientists at the Africa Rice Center. This adaptation, known as the HYPERLINK Smart-valleys approach The private sector in the developed world has already woken up to the need for vast investment in agriculture so that food systems will withstand the challenges posed by extreme weather events and dwindling supplies of natural resources. Boston Consulting Group HYPERLINK reported just last week Building the resilience of African agriculture will cut the $35bn the continent spends on food imports. It will relieve the burden that malnutrition puts on the continent’ s economy, which has been estimated to reduce national labour forces by as much as HYPERLINK f 13 per cent . In short - it can unlock Africa’ s potential for growth. COP22 in Morocco is the ideal moment to capitalise on the momentum that is growing around adaptation for African agriculture, and deliver the message that climate funds directed to this sector are money well spent. Dr Bruce Campbell is the director of the CGIAR Research Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security.
  8

 8 : COP21_UK305
India, one of the world’ s largest coal users, will cut back on its investments in the fuel if the new climate deal due to be struck next week in Paris delivers more money to help it shift to cleaner sources of energy such as solar power, a senior negotiator said on Wednesday. We’ ve made it very clear that solar and wind is our first commitment, said Ajay Mathur, director general of India’ s Bureau of Energy Efficiency, at the Paris talks, HYPERLINK known as COP21 . Hydro, nuclear, all of these non-carbon sources are what we will develop to the largest extent we can, he told reporters. But it has to be affordable. He was speaking as campaigners from a fossil fuel divestment movement said the number of investors shunning coal, gas and oil has surged ahead of the Paris conference. At least 500 institutions with more than $3.4tn in assets have pledged to avoid or cut holdings in fossil fuels, said activist groups 350.org and Divest-Invest. That represents a big jump from a year ago, when 181 institutions representing about $50bn in assets were committed to such a step, they said. A spate of city councils, banks, pension funds, churches and universities have pledged to cut back or shun coal investments this year. One of the most striking commitments came last month when Allianz, the German insurance group, said it would pull more than € 4bn ($4.3bn) from companies with coal businesses. Earlier this year, the Norwegian parliament decided the country’ s $857bn sovereign wealth fund should withdraw from any company in which coal represents more than 30 per cent of the business. Both moves came in the wake of a divestment campaign that began on US college campuses more than two years ago in an effort to make fossil fuel holdings as unpopular as tobacco or investments in apartheid-era South Africa. Churches and wealthy individuals with an interest in climate change then joined, including the heirs to the Rockefeller oil fortune. The momentum in this divestment campaign is accelerating day by day, Stephen Heintz, president of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, told journalists at the Paris climate conference on Wednesday. There is a moral imperative to save the planet and to do so we need to end the fossil fuel era now, he said. Benjamin Sporton, chief executive of the World Coal Association said that although the campaigners’ multi-trillion dollar headline figures seemed large, a lot of the institutions and funds with these assets did not currently have coal holdings and the amount of money actually being pulled out of coal was relatively small. While there are companies and funds saying they want to get out of coal, there are plenty of others that are remaining invested, he told the Financial Times. This was especially the case in South East Asia and in large countries such as India, where governments are planning to continue using coal for electricity. Mr Sporton said he hoped the Paris climate talks would help drive the use of technology that allows coal to be burnt more efficiently and cleanly, a chief aim of his members. Coal companies have borne the brunt of the divestment push because coal produces more carbon emissions when burnt than other fossil fuels such as natural gas. But it remains an abundant and cheap source of energy in many developing countries and is the biggest source of electricity globally, accounting for a 41 per cent share of the world’ s electricity, according to the International Energy Agency. That global share is expected to fall to just over 30 per cent by 2030, the agency says, as fast-growing renewable energy sources supply a larger proportion of electricity. However, divestments have not been the only feature of this year’ s assault on coal. Banks have made public their refusal to fund some coal investments. In Australia, where India’ s Adani group wants to build the country’ s largest proposed coal project, Standard Chartered has said it will no longer be involved in the increasingly controversial development. Banks including Deutsche and HSBC had already steered clear. And multilateral commitments to the coal industry have been reined in. Last month member states of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development agreed limits on export subsidies for coal-fired power stations, following unilateral initiatives to curb export credits by countries including the UK and US. But divestment has its critics. Anne Stausboll, chief executive of Calpers, the California state pension system, has called lobbying for divestment flawed and said it is more constructive to engage with companies where the fund invests. However California approved a divestment law in October. Calpers will evaluate divestment as outlined in the bill , the fund said. As of June it had $57m invested in 27 thermal coal companies. Listen to the HYPERLINK World Weekly podcast
  9

 9 : COP25_UK284
A European Union (EU) programme aimed at reducing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions has made significant progress despite low prices in carbon markets, according to a study at the Universities of Strathclyde and Pittsburgh. Under the EU’s Emissions Trading System (ETS), introduced in 2005 in response to the Kyoto Protocol, governments set a cap on an allowable total amount of emissions over a certain period. They also issue tradable emission permits, which allow for one ton of CO2. It is widely considered that carbon markets require high prices to reduce emissions but many observers believe they often set prices which are considered too low. However, the study by Strathclyde and Pittsburgh has found that the EU ETS saved around 1.2 billion tons of CO2 between 2008 and 2016, nearly half of what governments pledged to reduce in their Kyoto Protocol commitments. The study has been published in the journal PNAS (Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America). Strathclyde’s home city, Glasgow, is due to host the next United Nations Climate Change Conference . Dr Patrick Bayer, a Chancellor’s Fellow in Strathclyde’s School of Government & Public Policy and lead author of the study, said: “The ETS was set up to cover some of the most polluting industries. It has focused on very carbon-intensive energy production and manufacturing but there is evidence in other research suggesting that these industries have started to diversify their business models and to look into adopting carbon-neutral technologies or, at least, are interested in thinking about how to change their operations.”Firms got an initial endowment of permits free but if they had emissions in excess of what they were allowed, they needed to buy more. If firms are to change their behaviour in the long run, prices of permits should be as high as possible to incentivise them to change away from carbon-intensive production. “It turned out prices in carbon markets were fairly low, which then caused major concerns for environmentalists and policy-makers, because they felt they might not provide sufficient incentives.”It depends on the sector or size of firm but we argue that, if firms think of carbon regulation as a long-term project, then they do need to start to change their behaviour.” The study used emissions in sectors not covered by the EU ETS to estimate what emissions would have been in those sectors the system does cover. It found that emissions in covered sectors decreased by between 8.1% and 11.5%, compared to expected emission levels without the EU ETS. This translates to a decrease of around 3.8%, compared with the EU’s total emissions during 2008 to 2016. Dr Bayer said: “In the energy and electricity markets, we have seen even big players thinking about how they can run their operations when becoming less dependent on fossil fuels. But there can be a threat that, whenever prices in those markets go up, an industry or business becomes exposed to high costs.”The appeal of carbon markets is that, once they are established with the right rules, you can connect them to other markets. Climate is not concerned about whether emissions are reduced in the UK or Germany or China; so long as they are reduced, that helps to address the problem. If you have carbon markets scattered across the world, you might be able to trade across those markets. “The UK’s future place in the ETS is still up for discussion but all options are on the table. Whether any UK carbon market would be connected to the European market isn’t clear and would probably depend on negotiations with the EU and how trade will be regulated in future relations. Assuming there were agreement on this and some strong economic integration between the two countries, it would probably make a lot of sense to connect those markets.”The UK has been successful in decarbonising its economy in the past decade or so and has a strong role to play in continuing to advocate for future decarbonisation.”The period our study covered, from 2008 to 2016, included the financial crisis and economic downturn, when demand for the permits reduced. We used a statistical model to account for the effect of the crisis. The emission reductions that we measure are in addition to lower demand for permits due to the economic crisis, energy efficiency targets and climate policies that try to address carbon emissions.” Scotland is in lockdown. Shops are closing and newspaper sales are falling fast. It’s no exaggeration to say that the future of The National is at stake. Please consider supporting us through this with a digital subscription from just £32 for 2 months by following this link: HYPERLINK . Thanks - and stay safe.
  10

 10 : COP22_UK100
THE United Nations came to Cardiff last week when students from across Wales took part in a mock United Nations conference on climate change. Students from across the country joined the debate and represented countries such as Brazil, USA, the Philippines and Saudi Arabia. The conference, run annually by Size of Wales in partnership with Welsh Centre for International Affairs, gives young people an opportunity to discuss the issue of climate change from the perspective of world leaders. Topics discussed ranged from clean energy, protecting rainforests, disaster management and how to finance these. “The conference encourages young people to be more engaged with climate change and political issues” said Janie Pridham, education officer at Size of Wales. “It also helps them develop understanding of other nations and cultures and to consider the responsibility of Wales, both locally and globally.” She added: “The standard of debate was extremely high this year.”It was wonderful to see the students take on their roles in such a realistic way. “Some delegates were quoting Trump and there was even a smear campaign between countries.” The aim of the day was for delegates to agree an international resolution on the issue of climate change, similar to the UN climate change COP22 talks that were held in Marrakesh in November. This year Sophie Howe, the Future Generations Commissioner, joined the event, acting as the secretary general and presiding over teams of three pupils representing 20 countries and organisations. “The bright, engaged young people I met today not only understand the critical point we have reached in terms of tackling climate change but understand that it is they who will be experiencing the positive or negative impact of our actions today.” the Commissioner said. “If we continue to give them a voice and an opportunity to influence, it gives me hope that there is a better future for everyone in Wales and that we will be a nation that makes a positive contribution to global wellbeing.” Size of Wales is a unique initiative which is helping to protect an area of rainforest twice the size of Wales as part of a national response to climate change. MOCKCOP is a highlight in its education programme, which also offers free workshops and assemblies to schools across Wales. The event was sponsored by Jenny Rathbone AM.
  11

 11 : COP22_UK152
Renewables research and innovation will be showcased by the University of Hull to a global audience at the UN Climate Change Conference in Marrakech. The conference, COP22 , is being held just days after the Paris Climate Agreement entered into force and aims to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change. The University forms part of the British presence, organised by the Department for International Trade (DIT), and will present in the UK Green is GREAT Pavilion at 10am on Monday 14 November. Former Deputy Prime Minster Lord John Prescott, European negotiator for the Kyoto climate change agreement and Fellow of the University’s Logistics Institute, will join Professor Amar Ramudhin, Executive Director of the Institute, and David Wells, Business Development Manager (Energy and Environment), as part of the University delegation. Prof Ramudhin said: ‘In the light of recent events such as Brexit and the US election, it is crucial that we commit to sharing our expertise in sustainable logistics and offshore wind energy, to help developing nations cut their emissions.’ ‘We are delighted that the Humber is leading the way in renewable energy. We have three of the world’s largest wind farms on our doorstep and companies such as Centrica, Siemens, Res Offshore, E.ON and Dong Energy are already established in our region. Siemens is operating a blade assembly plant for wind turbines upwards of 6MW.’ The Humber region has invested more than GBP7.6bn in off-shore wind energy and is fast-becoming a global leader in renewable energy. Providing expertise in research, development and innovation, the University of Hull has been collaborating with GreenPort Hull, Siemens and others, to train highly qualified professionals in the area and to undertake supply chain research to drive down the cost of renewable energy. The University, which has been also been working with Universiapolis, the International University of Agadir in Morocco or a year, will present on the collaboration for carbon reduction using renewable energy. The discussion at the conference will focus on how developed countries could work with emerging countries to help them develop a move away from a carbon intensive economy. The University will present on its research and partnerships at the conference which is attended by a high-profile audience of senior policy makers, government officials, businesses, scientists and academics - all focusing on global solutions to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. The Morocco conference aims to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change by keeping the temperature rise this century significantly below two degrees Celsius. David Wells said: ‘Helping developing countries cut emissions is a focus of global concern. At the University, we are building on our existing research expertise and collaborating with academic colleagues around the world to tackle this important issue.’ ‘Morocco is already investing heavily in renewables. It has opened a solar farm, and like the Humber, is investing in wind technology. We have been working with the Universiapolis for more than a year addressing carbon emissions in agriculture. Our other work within the renewables sector includes our specialisation in offshore wind, impact assessment of large scale renewable energy developments and helping the industry develop health and safety standards.’ ‘Studying the feasibility of such systems and devising an incentive framework will position Morocco as a leader in this area and is in line with the government’s strategy when it comes to renewable energy.’ Dr Aziz Bouslikhane, President of Universiapolis, said: ‘Our university has always tried to contribute proactively to the strategic initiatives of our country. Morocco has prioritised the environment in the development of a sustainable green economy. It is making its place in the international community as evidenced by the hosting the COP22 conference in Marrakesh. Our collaboration with the University of Hull is a step in this direction.’ The Logistics Institute at the University of Hull is internationally recognised for research into supply chain operations, retail and management. In addition to its work on renewables, the Institute is working in conjunction with the World Economic Forum Global Agenda Council on the Future of Logistics and Supply Chains, to produce an innovative report on the impact of the Internet of Things(IoT). The University of Hull is ranked in the top 3% in the world by the Times Higher World University Rankings. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  12

 12 : COP23_UK171
One year after the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on climate change, the Bonn Conference, which opens on 6 November in Germany, will be an opportunity for nations around the world to show their ambition for climate action and their determination to keep their promises. “While Paris represented one of those moments where the best of humanity achieved an agreement so important to our collective futures, Bonn represents how we will move forward to fulfill its promise”, said the Executive Secretary of United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Patricia Espinosa, on the margins of a ministerial meeting in Fiji on 17 October 2017 to prepare for the Bonn Conference of the Convention’s States Parties. “We are running out of time to turn things around. To do so, we must significantly increase our efforts to reduce emissions and our carbon footprints,” she added. The Paris Agreement, which was adopted by the 196 Parties to the UNFCCC in December 2015 in the French capital after which it is named, calls on countries to combat climate change by limiting the rise of global temperature below 2 degrees Celsius and strive not to exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius. A year ago, the Marrakech Climate Conference concluded with the Marrakech Action Proclamation, for our climate and sustainable development, in which the UNFCCC States Parties affirmed their “commitment” to the “full implementation” of the Paris Agreement. Today, 169 Parties have ratified the Agreement. At the Bonn Conference, informally known as COP 23 , countries will seek to move forward in completing the rule book for operationalizing the Paris Agreement. The Conference, which runs until 17 November, is chaired by Fiji, an island State particularly affected by the impacts of climate change. “Never has our work been more necessary. We see this with respect to the extreme weather events affecting almost every continent throughout the world,” said Ms. Espinosa. COP 23 President and Fiji Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama agrees. “We can no longer ignore this crisis. Whether it is fires in California, Portugal and Spain. Flooding in Nigeria, India and Bangladesh. The dramatic Arctic melt. Ice breaking off the continent of Antarctica. The recent hurricanes that devastated the Caribbean and the southern United States [. . . ] It’s hard to find any part of the world that is unaffected by these events”, he said at the ministerial meeting in Fiji. Bonn Conference an opportunity to boost climate risk management efforts In an op-ed published in October 2017, Ms. Espinosa, alongside the Administrator of the UN Development Programme (UNDP), Achim Steiner, and the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Disaster Risk Reduction, Robert Glasser, said the Bonn Conference “provides an opportunity to not only accelerate emission reductions but also boost the serious work of ensuring that the management of climate risk is integrated into disaster risk management as a whole.” A week before the opening of the Bonn Conference, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) announced that the levels of carbon dioxide (C02) surged at
“record-breaking speed” to new highs in 2016. The Bonn Conference will feature a series of meetings and events, including the high-level segment, on 15 November and 16 November, attended by Heads of State and Government, Ministers, and UN Secretary-General Ant’f3nio Guterres. Mr. Guterres has invited leaders to consider championing six high-impact areas at a special Climate Summit in 2019. These areas are investment in clean technology, maturing carbon pricing, enabling the energy transition, risk mitigation and building resilience, augmenting the contribution of sub-national actors and business and mobilizing climate finance. “Increasing ambition is the only way to keep the global temperature rise well below 2 degrees Celsius this century, and as close to 1.5 degree as possible. By focusing on these sectors, we can substantially reduce the gap between where we are and where we need to be,” said UN Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed, at the pre-COP meeting in Fiji. Among the side events scheduled at COP 23 , several will be organized under the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action to show how cities, regions, private sector companies and investors are trying to implement the Paris Agreement in the areas of energy, water, agriculture, oceans and coastal areas, human settlements, transportation, industry, and forests. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  13

 13 : COP23_UK79
A POPULAR holiday destination for Britons could be gone by the end of the century as it continues to sink due to rising sea levels, as world leaders are called to act at the COP23 conference. Getty The Maldives is rapidly sinking and could be gone in the next 80 years The Pacific Islands contain some of the famous idyllic holiday destinations chosen by Britons for sun and luxury,~ With sea levels rising dramatically in the past few decades, the islands will suffer the most as they eventually become entirely submerged. Tuvalu could be uninhabitable by 2050, with some islands such as Kiribati being completely gone by 2100. The Pacific island nations have urged leaders around the world to act after the COP23 conference in Germany discussed climate change and implementing the 2015 Paris agreement on global warming. The COP23 The Maldives is a famous destination for honeymooners and families, and this is also at risk of completely disappearing. With the lowest elevation in the world and just an average height of four feet above sea level, this too could be gone in the next century. The Solomon Islands have also been affected, with five of them already having completely sunk. New Zealand has become the first nation to create a new visa category for people who live on the islands, and are a product of island displacement. Getty Pacific Islands has warned that many islands are sinking, threatening the homes of many Professor Tim Flannery, a climate change expert at La Trobe University, told news.com.au: “It’s very concerning times, particularly if you live in a small island nation.”Many of those nations are already making agreements to deal with the problem as it develops.” He explained further: “As sea water rises it starts to penetrate the freshwater on the land, that’s the most immediate threat for a lot of the island.”Beach and coastal erosion and flooding is another threat. With these two factors it’s entirely possible within the next 30 years some islands could be rendered uninhabitable.” Getty The Maldives is a popular destination for honeymooners, but may not be around in the next decade They aren’t the only tourist destinations that could disappear within 50 years.~ Rising sea levels are also occurring due to glaciers melting as the planet warms up. The famous Columbia Glacier in Alaska is at risk due to the speed in which it is melting. Related articles UK weather: 2017 could be one of top three HOTTEST years ever recorded Great Barrier Reef DYING: Corals among 62 natural wonders under threat Earth under THREAT: Humans must do THIS to save the planet
  14

 14 : COP22_UK326
Less than two months after releasing an update to its Green Bond Principles (GBPs), stakeholders in the market and the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) are already looking ahead to what updates will be included in the 2017 draft principles. Issuance of green bonds is set to undershoot the Climate Bond Initiative’s
(CBI) $100bn annual target for yet another year. But stakeholders say that, volatility and uncertainty aside, a major factor in scaling up the market is on hammering out clear and widely accepted definitions on which projects can be accepted as green. “There’s a lot of work to be done in the principles in terms of definitions,” said a senior funding official at a major public sector issuer who is involved in the GBPs. “The big challenge is to create a framework of comparability and compatibility, to make sure that the content of green bonds is clearer for investors,” the official added. “Currently, impact reporting harmonisation is only on energy impact and efficiency, which are the areas that have been used as a test case for cooperation among the different parties. Now the other areas on the eligibility list of the principles need to be addressed to find consensus on certain indications.” ICMA updated the GBPs in June, focusing on recommendations for best practice on reporting, third party reviews and the creation of publicly available templates. The industry organisation also included some new definitions of the kinds of external reviews issuers should use and guidance on how to best use them to illustrate their “project selection processes and their adherence to the GBP recommendations”, as well as some additions and clarifications to a list of categories of green eligible projects. Participants regularly debate the need for more comprehensive definitions on eligible projects, among other things, and whether that is more pressing than bringing more issuers and investors into the market. Too strict, some say, and the market risks alienating prospective issuers. Too lenient, and it risks losing credibility and the attention of investors. But underpinning that debate is the fact that supply is somewhat less than desired because issuers’ traditional funding alternatives are ostensibly cheaper. “We clearly appreciate more issuers coming, but that’s one of the trickier parts of further developing the principles,” said one green investor.
“From an investor perspective, we would love to have more legally binding documentation on the use of proceeds, but given that”” for the time being “” there is no price incentive for issuers to print green bonds, we can’t set the hurdle too high for the issuer. “We have to balance between bringing new issuers to the market to build up a very diverse portfolio or setting the standards very high”” but limiting the number of issuers coming to the market. For the time being, having a more diversified portfolio is of greater value.” One senior fund manager at a major investment house went a step further, saying that the buy-side may largely disregard the GBPs. “We welcome the [GBPs] and the fact that we are moving more and more towards a label for green bonds. Before that, everybody was able to issue and just say,”~It’s a green bond’ “” and it would be recorded as such,” the fund manager said. “Having said that, the strength of a big asset management house is to be able to label green bonds by itself and not rely on external rating agencies. The principles are good news for the market because they create a common language between investor and issuer, but in itself”” like a credit rating “” it doesn’t prevent you from doing your own analysis. We already incorporated green in our SRI analyses. We want to avoid greenwashing, so we excluded even green bonds issued by a company that we’ve decided is not in itself green.” Beyond industry led initiatives, many also think governments need to punch out more regulation on the market, in the hope of increasing investor confidence and expanding the buyer base. China’s recent entry into the market was accompanied by a set of rules from the People’s Bank of China for financial institutions involved in green bonds, as well as policy incentives. But in Europe, at least, many are wary of regulators taking on too much of a role. “We are afraid that if regulation is put on the green bond market, it will limit the number of issuers joining. It has been a very successful market initiative and we hope the market will have the space to develop further before regulators step in,” the first investor said. “It’s different in China, which has a completely different political and economic system. There it might make sense to have clear regulation, but it shouldn’t be a template for the worldwide market,” he added.
  15

 15 : COP25_UK351
French environmental activists brandished stolen portraits of President Emmanuel Macron at a protest yesterday near the Eiffel Tower to try to push the government to do more to fight climate change. The protest is part of an unusual climate movement that has taken root around France in which activists have stolen more than 130 portraits of Macron from town halls. They feel the business-friendly Macron is not doing enough to reduce emissions, even though he portrays himself on the global stage as Mr Climate. The activists carried the portraits upside down to show what they consider Mr Macron’e2(EURO)(TM)s hypocrisy - to call for bolder government action at the UN COP25 climate talks under way in Madrid. Pauline Boyer from climate group ANV COP21, said the demonstration was to show ’e2(EURO)oethat Emmanuel Macron uses doublespeak, by presenting himself as a climate champion while he is not enforcing a true policy in France that could tackle the environment challenge’e2(EURO). Activists are notably angry that France has lagged on its international commitments to increase use of solar and wind energy and reduce emissions. Mr Macron has stood up to US President Donald Trump on the need for countries and business to co-operate to cut emissions. However, he backed down on a fuel tax last year meant to help wean France off fossil fuels, because the tax triggered a protest movement against economic injustice. The activists at Sunday’e2(EURO)(TM)s protest held 100 portraits, to mark 100 days until France’e2(EURO)(TM)s mayoral elections. They want to urge future mayors to take local climate action.
  16

 16 : COP23_UK80
NICOLA Sturgeon will be among the political leaders to take part in the United Nations climate change conference which begins in Bonn on Monday. The First Minister and Scotland’s Environment Secretary, Roseanna Cunningham, will meet represent-atives from other governments as well as scientists, industry groups and environmental campaigners when they travel to the former west German capital during the course of the two-week event. The conference’s key objective is to set out how countries can implement the Paris accord to curb climate change - despite Donald Trump’s announcing his intention to pull the US out of the agreement. The 23rd Conference of the Parties (COP) will be presided over by Fiji, one of the small island nations particularly vulnerable to the effects of global warming. Researchers say extreme weather like the events of recent months - including hurricanes in the Carib- bean, heatwaves in Europe and flooding in south Asia - will become more frequent as a result of climate change. To prevent catastrophic consequences, they say countries must make concerted efforts to shift the global economy away from fossil fuels. Cunningham said: “The Scottish Government recognises that the need for international collaboration is greater than ever, which is why the First Minister and I will be attending UNFCCC [United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change] Bonn 23, taking the opportunity to build relations with our international neighbours, and ensure Scotland continues to lead by example in tackling climate change. We believe Scotland and the rest of the developed world has a clear moral duty to ensure our lifestyles do not cause harm to the world’s poorest people.” Friends of the Earth Scotland will be among a host of environmental groups attending the conference. Head of campaigns Mary Church said: “Current targets are woefully inadequate to stop warming at 2C, let alone the 1.5C that countries most vulnerable to the impacts of global warming need to have any chance of surviving climate chaos.”Rich countries who have done the most to cause the climate crisis are still not cutting emissions fast enough, but a growing global movement is forcing them to start facing up to their responsibility, and take action. Friends of the Earth will use the talks to call for an end to the use of polluting fossils fuels and a rapid and just transition to low-carbon econ-omies around the world. For Scotland this means ramping up ambition in our new climate act to zero emissions by 2040, and plan for a fair shift away from North Sea oil and gas.” Trump announced he will pull out of the 2015 accord unless he can an secure a better deal for the US.
  17

 17 : COP24_UK284
To the casual observer, the HYPERLINK latest official greenhouse gas figures paint a promising picture of the nation’s efforts to fight ~ HYPERLINK climate change . Globally these gases may be on the rise, but the UK’s data suggest the government’s boast that it has a “proven track record in tackling climate change” is well founded. In this context,it is easy to paintthe responses to the new figures by the usual parade of green campaigners, opposition politicians and climate experts as needlessly dour. Instead of praising the progress that has been made, they focus on motorised transport, which continues to pump out nearly as much climate-harming pollution as itdid three decades ago. But why single out people’s HYPERLINK cars for criticism when as a nation we have been so successful at slashing emissions? The greatest progress in greening our economy has been made in electricity production and use. Coal generation has been largely eradicated, as has oil, to be replaced with gas, wind power and bioenergy. Homes and businesses are more energy efficient too. Victories will continue to come thick and fast in this areaas turbines and solar panels replace fossil fuels, but there will soon come a time when they can no longer disguise other sectors’ shortcomings. Transport by contrast has been difficult to decarbonise. Electric cars are only just beginning to emerge as viable alternatives to conventional gas guzzlers, and the tiny gains that have been made have largely come from fuel efficiency and biofuels blended with diesel and petrol. Read more ‘Shocking’ failure to cut emissions from UK’s biggest polluter Meanwhile progress in aviation and shipping, some of the trickiest areas in which to cut emissions, is painfully slow. Fortunately for ministers, international flights are not included in the current set offigures. Still,the challenge of turning transport green does not excuse government inaction, and the concern is that the UK’s achievements will be used to excuse developments that have no place in a country that takes climate change seriously. Indeed, this already seems to be happening. Just look at HYPERLINK Chris Grayling ‘s assertion that Heathrow expansion is compatible with Britain’s climate targets, ~ HYPERLINK despite independent assurances Last year Lord Deben, chairman of government advisers the Committee on Climate Change (CCC), HYPERLINK lambasted ministers COP24 president Michal Kurtyka ’proud’ as climate measures agreed Currently, the government is set to miss the legally binding target it has set itself for 2027, in order to inch towards an 80 per cent cut in emissions by 2050. If the country ups its ambition even further and aims to be essentially carbon neutral by then - a target encouraged by the Paris climate agreement - the changes will have to be more significant. Not all these changes have to be complicated. People are driving roughly the same distance every year as they were in 1990, so why not give public transport a boost? Other European nations - and even Scotland - have set more ambitious targets for phasing out non-electric cars than the UK government, so it would make sense to take a leaf out of their book too. If the country wants to keep its place as a climate leader, it needs to make sure no sector is left behind.
  18

 18 : COP24_UK278
NICOLA Sturgeon has told world leaders at the climate summit in Poland that they have to be ambitious in their goals for tackling climate change as she highlighted Scotland’s place as a leader in the field. The First Minister was speaking during a session at COP24 in Katowice, when she said climate change was accelerating and they had to accelerate the “pace and scale” of their actions to combat it. “The first strategy that we all must adopt is to be ambitious in the goals that we set to tackle climate change,” she said. “Scotland is seeking to lead by example in what we are doing. We’ve already almost halved our emissions based on 1990 levels but we are in the process of legislating to increase our ambitions to keep pace with the Paris commitments.”We aim to be a carbon neutral country by 2050, we aim to be net zero of all greenhouse gas emissions as soon as we possibly can achieve that and we will achieve that by taking action across a range of sectors. “We have set ambitious targets around electric vehicles and we want to be a country that is reaping the economic benefits of being an early adopter and being in the lead on tackling climate change.” Sturgeon went on to highlight the economic advantage for countries that become “early adopters and innovators”. With a population of five million, Scotland had a “significant” low carbon and renewable economy, with 50,000 jobs. “It has a turnover of £311 billion, so it is significant and growing. By being a leader, for example in wind energy and tidal energy, we’ve created jobs and research opportunities and economic opportunities. She said:”We will be working closely with civil society, trade unions, the NGO community and private companies to demonstrate that there is nothing to fear and everything to gain from the transition to a low carbon economy; that we can create new jobs that replace jobs in the older industries; and that those jobs can often be higher skilled, better paid. “So we can benefit by doing the right thing for our own country and for the planet.” Earlier, African climate leaders had called on the Scottish Government to raise its ambition on climate change. In a letter to Sturgeon, the Pan African Climate Justice Alliance (PACJA) - representing more than 1000 member organisations from 45 African countries - praised Holyrood for its pioneering efforts so far, notably the
“bold step” of launching the Climate Justice Fund which has been emulated elsewhere. However, its executive director Mithika Mwenda said that in light of the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, Scotland must respond by “putting in place measures to drastically cut its emissions as science demands”. “For communities in Africa devastated by the adverse effects of climate change, we keep hoping against hope that countries like Scotland will rise to the occasion and stand to be counted as the global community rallies against time to avoid the precipice,” he said. Chris Hegarty, spokesperson for Stop Climate Chaos Scotland, added: “The Paris Agreement puts equity at the heart of global efforts to tackle climate change, yet this principle is under threat with richer countries unwilling to do their fair share.”
  19

 19 : COP23_UK183
We need the right technology, not new technology and, essentially a systemic mindset to realise a sustainable transport system. That was the message delivered by Scania at this year’s UN Climate Change Conference ( COP23 ). ‘Possibilities rather than problems’ were the focus of this year’s conference says Jonas Stromberg, Scania’s Director of Sustainable Solutions. Despite this, Stromberg felt there was, at times, too much emphasis on what he called ‘silver-bullet technology’. ‘My first line is always that the technology is not the problem, we have the technology. The problem is that procurers, cities and decision makers are not asking for cost-efficient technology, they are only asking for the next technology,’ he says. Systemic approach to sustainable transport Speaking during a seminar on public transport Stromberg emphasised the necessity to use several solutions with the technology already present. He also underlined the need to approach sustainable transport systematically. ‘We shouldn’t only be looking at the city but also to whole regional transport patterns. Different solutions are needed for different areas, and procuring whole systems of vehicles, infrastructure and clean fuels makes it possible for us in the industry to offer really cost-efficient solutions.’ Considering the whole transport system Stromberg explained that a change in mindset when it comes to procurement is fundamental. ‘To understand the situation you need to understand the operators, the customers, and the cities. This is why one of our key messages was when you undertake procurement you must consider the whole transport system in a systematic way.’ He also spoke of the need for CO2 taxation.
‘We believe you really have to have a global CO2 tax otherwise nothing will change.’ Replacing fossil fuel A CO2 emissions tax has transformed Sweden. In 1970 the nation was the most oil-dependent nation per capita of all the European countries. Now, apart from the transport sector, oil has been phased out everywhere. However, the transport sector is changing fast. Sweden has the highest replacement of fossil fuel systems in the transport sector of any country. A good example of this is Stockholm county’s 2,300 strong bus fleet. Only one bus, on a small island in the archipelago, is still run on a fossil fuel - diesel - and it is soon to be replaced. For 15 years, public transport procurement in Sweden has been demanding CO2 efficiency, not necessarily new technology. It is the most cost-efficient solution and has reduced CO2 by over 90 percent. All this has been achieved with ‘off-the-shelf’ technology, nothing new. Scania’s biogas buses in the UK are another good example of a cost-effective sustainable solution. They reduce 90 percent of emissions by 80 percent the cost of diesel. Making transport more efficient ‘The strength of Swedish and Nordic climate policies is the big consensus of opinion between the opposition parties and the governing parties that we need to do more to get a sustainable society and to de-carbonise. Therefore, whatever happens in the next election, this development will continue and this is important for industry.’ Wastljung underlined the importance to the panel of making the transport of goods more efficient, telling them that ‘one of Scania’s goals is to reduce CO2 emissions by 50% from our land transport by 2025.’ [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  20

 20 : COP23_UK38
November 16, 2017 Climate engineering, or climate intervention, is risky but needs to be explored as a supplement - not as a ‘Plan B’ - to greenhouse gas emissions reduction, said experts at the United Nations Climate Change Conference COP23 ), in Bonn, Germany. Climate engineering, also referred to as geoengineering, is the deliberate and large-scale intervention in the climate system with measures including carbon dioxide removal from the atmosphere or solar radiation management. “We can do a lot, we have to do a lot, we have to try much harder at cutting our emissions, but there will remain certain emissions, especially in the land use sector, which are not going away. So we actually need to start talking about this removal of greenhouse gases inevitably,” said Matthias Honegger, research scientist with the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies, at a press conference. Different approaches are being discussed. Some already exist, like planting trees. Other ideas include dispersing certain minerals in the oceans to enhance the growth of algae, which then as they sink to the ocean floor, would create a net flux of carbon from the atmosphere into the oceans. “Business as usual is a little worrying,” said Dr. Hugh Hunt, from the Department of Engineering at Cambridge University. “The concept of not doing anything is full of danger. Now the concept of cooling the planet is full of danger as well.” “We need to have full-on public engagement, full-on societal involvement. The reason is that the risks of climate change are huge, the risks of doing nothing are huge; but the risks of geoengineering are huge as well. We’ve got to explore those risks, because who knows, we may end up entering a very risky world without understanding it,” he added. “Geoengineering risks are not well understood and need to be explored.” Stratospheric aerosol injection Stratospheric aerosol injection consists of injecting sulfate aerosols into the stratosphere with aircraft or balloons to create a global dimming effect. “This technology is absolutely terrifying. We may actually need it, but then, who do we want to decide. That’s where this society-wide discussion has to take place,” said Janos Pasztor, Executive Director of the Carnegie Climate Geoengineering Governance Initiative (C2G2), and former UN senior climate advisor. “It would require a level of international cooperation that we have not yet seen.” “Who will decide whether we should make use of stratospheric aerosol injection and when that decision should take place? [. . . ] Who will make that decision on behalf of the world? And then how far do we turn the thermostat of the global air conditioning system [. . . ] to cool the planet?” he said.
“There are issues: the more temperature you want to reduce the higher the chance there will be negative impact and the higher the chance that some of these impacts will not be the same across different geographical zones. You might end up in a situation where some people benefit from the reduced temperature but some people would have negative impacts. What do you do with those people? How do you compensate them? How do you take care of them?” he added. Mr. Pasztor concluded that the highest priority should remain the gas emission reduction. “But we have to consider these other options, as supplements, not as a ‘Plan B,’ ” he warned.
  21

 21 : COP21_UK40
Taipei, Taiwan - Delta announced that it joined the ‘Road to Paris’ initiative by the Carbon Disclosure Project and has committed to a 30% reduction in its electricity intensity by the year 2020, which follows a 50% reduction already achieved by the company over the past five years. Delta Electronics will actively participate in a series of events that reflect its commitment to sustainability during the upcoming COP21 . Delta will present its 21 green buildings, which it has constructed over the past 10 years, at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. In addition, Delta will organize a side event, which has been approved by the United Nations COP21 General Secretariat, to share its knowledge and achievements in energy savings and the construction of green buildings. Mr. Ping Cheng, chief executive officer of Delta Electronics, emphasized, ‘Delta has a long-term commitment to sustainability. From 2010 to 2014, we successfully reduced our electricity intensity (electricity use per product value) by 50% compared to 2009 and in the past 10 years we have constructed 21 green buildings. Delta is now enhancing our commitment by engaging in the CDP’s Road to Paris initiative and promising a further 30% reduction in electricity intensity by 2020, and we are expanding our commitment to the whole group.’ Ms. Shan-Shan Guo, chief brand officer of Delta Electronics and executive director of Delta Electronics Foundation, said, ‘Delta is honored to have received permission by the UN COP21 General Secretariat to organize a side event at the Climate Generations areas during COP21 . After 10 years of implementing green buildings, we wish to share our experience by organizing a side event and hosting the ’Delta 21 Green Buildings at COP21 Exhibition’ at the Grand Palais, and show the world the efforts of a corporation that is deeply committed to sustainability.’ Since 2007, the Delta Electronics Foundation has attended the UN Climate Change Conferences annually, and in 2014, it hosted a side event in which Delta introduced their experience on rebuilding the Namasia Elementary School. Over the years, Delta’s efforts to reduce carbon emissions have been recognized by international organizations such as the CDP, which selected Delta for its Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) in 2014-the only company chosen from the Greater China region. For the past five consecutive years, Delta has also been a member of the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) World Index and was a leader in the ICT Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Components in 2015. 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP21 ) will be the most important climate change conference in the past 10 years. We expect the participating countries to reach an agreement to reduce carbon emissions. During COP21 , Delta will use its advanced ‘edge-blending’ projection capabilities to exhibit its entire portfolio of green buildings inside the Grand Palais in Paris, France. The Delta Electronics Foundation will also organize a side event to share Delta’s contributions on green buildings and carbon footprint reduction. Contact: Delta Group 186, Ruey Kuang Road Neihu, Taipei 11491 Taiwan, R.O.C Tel: +886-2-8797-2088 Email: HYPERLINK mailto:news@delta.com.tw news@delta.com.tw [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  22

 22 : COP26_UK150
NICOLA Sturgeon yesterday called “slacker” row minister Lorna Slater a “hard worker”. The First Minister leapt to the Greens co-leader’s defence after she was blasted over her “diva” demands at COP26 . We told yesterday, right, how the MSP had insisted she needed two days off and no early starts after a late finish during November’s eco summit - despite warning earlier it was “our last chance to save planet Earth”. But when quizzed on the issue, Ms Sturgeon said: “Lorna is an incredibly hard worker. I’ve seen that in the time she has been in the Government.” And she said her request for two days off was “over the course of a 14-day period”. QUEENWON’THELPINSECURITYROW II HYPERLINK mailto:thescottishsun.co.uk@scottishsun thescottishsun.co.uk@scottishsun He plans to sue the last night: “Her Majesty certainly won’t cave in to his demands.”UK Government togivehimbacktheprotection he lost after quitting royal duties. But a source said ByMATTWILKINSON Sun columnis” iers FullStory-Pages6and7 Snub. . . Queen&Harry Morgan branded him a
“deluded, woefullyentitled hypocrite”. ’ SLATER earns £398,045 as Minister for Green Skills and Biodiversity. Her calls came in an email to aides two weeks before the Glasgow event. A source said: “It was talk of the steamie.” SUMMITSTORM £3100k-a-yearGreens shock days off at COP26 . minister Lorna Slater a “ides by saying she MSP
- paid nearly ’twanttoworkeverydayaecoconference. shouldarrangenomoreEXCLUSIVEbyCHRISMUSSONthan”twothingsinaday”during the Glasgow summit. ayearforherScottishrole-alsowarned Labour’s net zero spokesman ColinSmythsaid:“Ihadn’trealisedthejobwaspart-time.” FullStory-PagesTwoandThree HYPERLINK chris.musson@the-sun.co.uk
  23

 23 : COP21_UK331
Scientists have delivered a stunning claim that certain countries will become so hot in the future that humans will be unable to survive outdoors. The damaging effects of climate change are predicted to have a deadly effect on parts of the Persian Gulf in less than a century. Qatar, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Saudi Arabia and Bahrain are all predicted to hit between 74C and 77C in some places by 2100, according to the study. Such temperatures are too hot for the human body to survive in as humans are unable to produce sweat to cool themselves down. The report was compiled by a pair of scientists from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Loyola Marymount University and was published in the journal Nature Climate Change. “Our results expose a regional hotspot where climate change, in the absence of significant mitigation, is likely to severely impact human habitability in the future,” they wrote. The authors used several high resolution climate model simulations to calculate the results. And although those temperatures wouldn’t occur every single day, the study goes on to say that “super heatwaves” could arrive once in a decade and the effects would be fatal. According to the authors of the study, their results could be avoided if carbon dioxide emissions are controlled. The research comes ahead of the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference being held in Paris next month. The conference will seek to find a universal and legally-binding agreement on climate change and controlling CO2 emissions. Is climate change the biggest threat to our planet? Load-Date: ~October 27, 2015
  24

 24 : COP22_UK297
The global effort to protect and sustainably manage forests and deliver on climate change targets got a major boost at the United Nations Climate Conference ( COP 22 ) taking place in Marrakech, Morocco, where several projects on protecting woodlands worldwide were announced. Forest actors at the meeting, formally known as the 22nd Conference of Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), expressed cautious optimism, welcoming the progress made on forest protection but warned against complacency. “We know that the annual net loss of natural forests is slowing - a 25 per cent decrease in 2015 compared to 2000. But this is very much about restoration, regeneration of forests and reforestation, [but] unfortunately tropical forest clearing continues,” said ‘Climate Champion’ Laurence Tubiana at a press conference yesterday. Ms. Tubiana, the French Ambassador on climate change, and Hakima El Haite, Moroccan Minister in charge of Environment, were appointed Climate Champions by the previous UN Climate Conference, known as COP 21. “It is improving, the action was effective, but we have to improve it if we want to be really consistent with the [Paris targets],” Ms. Tubiana added, referring to the landmark Paris Agreement on climate change, which was adopted in the French capital last year and calls on countries to combat climate change and to accelerate and intensify the actions and investments needed for a sustainable low carbon future, and to adapt to the increasing impacts of the phenomenon. Also at press conference, Rene Castro Salazar, the Assistant Director-General for Forestry of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO), also warned against complacency. “Forests are still disappearing at close to three million hectares per year [. . . ] especially natural forests. We hope the remaining four billion hectares of forest of the world will be sustainably managed, that will be the only way to preserve the resource. Addressing climate change cannot be done without a sustainable forest management programme,” he underscored. In efforts to tackle climate change, forests play an important role as they absorb and store carbon as trees grow, thereby eliminating emissions from the atmosphere. But deforestation and forest degradation have the opposite effect: they release carbon into the atmosphere. Currently, deforestation and forest degradation are responsible for 12 per cent of global carbon emissions. “Forests are one of the largest and most cost-effective responses we have to climate change,” said Helen Clark, Administrator of the UN Development Programme (UNDP), said in a news release. According to Mr. Castro Salazar, healthier forests not only help combat climate change but also contribute to many other global development goals by providing food, income, fuel and shelter. The sense of prudent optimism was shared by the Senior Director of the Forest and Climate Program of the non-governmental organization WWF, Josephina Brana-Varela. “There is a lot of progress. We are on the right path but we need to do it faster,” she said at the press conference. To that end, she drew attention to the “very unusual coalition of partners” that has emerged around the issue, including developed countries, developing countries, corporations, private sector actors, indigenous people, and multilateral organizations. A dozen initiatives were presented yesterday at COP 22 by countries from Africa, Asia and South America during Forest Action Day, which is part of the Global Climate Action Agenda initiative by France and Morocco to boost cooperative action between governments, cities, business, investors and citizens. Among initiatives, the Government of Indonesia announced that it is implementing a moratorium on clearing super-high-carbon intact peatlands. Colombia announced forest plans linked to the peace process, including an initiative to put very large areas of forest under the control of indigenous people. The Moroccan Government announced an initiative called ‘Strengthened Action in Favor of Forests in the Mediterranean-Sahel Region in the Context of Climate Change’ to help countries of that region meet multilateral commitments to forests. “The idea is to form a collaborative partnership throughout the region given the interactions and strong relationships in environmental and socio-economic areas,” said the Secretary General of the High Commissioner for water and forests of Morocco, Abderrahim Houmy, at the press conference. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  25

 25 : COP25_UK2
MADRID, Spain – What: Africa Day When: 10 December 2019 Where: Room 3, Hall 4 at IFEMA Conference Centre, Madrid Time: 18:30 to 20:00 Who: Jointly organized by the African Union Commission, African Development Bank (AfDB.org), and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa Officials, experts, activists and journalists are invited to take part and cover the Africa Day at the COP25 conference in Madrid on 10 December 2019, in room 3 at the IFEMA Conference Centre. During this event, leaders will provide an update of the global commitments made at the world’s leading climate change meeting. Africa Day marks Africa’s presence and participation at the various United Nations Climate Change Conference (UNFCCC) sessions since COP 17. Africa Day provides a platform for the continent’s decision makers and other stakeholders to engage in a dialogue that informs the region’s course of action around climate change. The discussions will touch on effective means of implementation (finance, capacity building, and technology development and transfer) of the Paris Agreement. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). Media Contacts: African Union Esther Azaa Tankou Head of Information Division Directorate of Information and Communication African Union Commission Email: HYPERLINK mailto:YambouE@africa-union.org YambouE@africa-union.org African Development Bank Gershwin Wanneburg Communication and External Relations Department African Development Bank Email: HYPERLINK mailto:g.wanneburg@afdb.org g.wanneburg@afdb.org Pan-African Parliament Ntsiuoa Sekete Senior Communications and Media Officer Pan-African Parliament Email: HYPERLINK mailto:ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  26

 26 : COP26_UK190
Kyle Academy pupils have presented their unique climate smart social enterprise business idea in GlasgowE2s Strathclyde Union after reaching the finals of a national COP26 themed DragonsE2 Den competition. Mary Bryne, Head Teacher, said: E2Kyle Academy has a strong tradition of sustainable Eco projects and we are extremely proud of the work completed by our Caring CafC3 in previous years and the fact that itE2s new re-branded Greener successor is a finalist in the Cop26 DragonE2s Den is witness to its longevity as a viable and worthwhile social enterprise.E2 The event is being delivered as part of the E2After the PandemicE2 COP26 programme and is one of a suite of After the Pandemic events taking place at Strathclyde Union during the COP26 climate conference this November. The DragonsE2 Den event in particular is being organised by Social Enterprise Academy, which since 2007 has delivered Social Enterprise Schools, innovated in partnership with the Scottish Government. Emily Mnyayi, Head of Education at Social Enterprise Academy, said: E2Our Climate Change DragonsE2 Den is a truly fantastic opportunity for young people in Scotland to be a part of this moment in history and take action against climate change. E2With Glasgow hosting COP26 , this special event is the perfect chance for young people to embrace social enterprise and focus their ideas on sustainability so that they may respond to what is not only an environmental challenge, but also a social one. E2We are always fascinated to see the innovative ideas coming out of our Social Enterprise School programme and this event will once again highlight how important social enterprise is in schools to embrace our young people as future change makers.E2 Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  27

 27 : COP26_UK299
THE COP26 climate summit is due to end today, with negotiators scrambling to salvage a significant deal on reducing global carbon emissions. Cop26 president Alok Sharma yesterday warned “time is running out” in Glasgow for the 180 countries at the summit to agree to a deal. While the summit will officially end today, Boris Johnson indicated negotiations could stretch into the weekend as happened in previous years. China and the US, the globe’s two largest CO2 emitters, on Wednesday agreed to team up to phase out fossil fuels in an unexpected deal. Pundits have said the deal provides hope that China could come to the table and agree to a deal to strengthen commitments made in the 2015 Paris Climate Accord. Sharma said proposals over reducing fossil fuel subsidies and accelerating reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are still crucial stumbling blocks. “Whilst we have made progress we are not there yet on the most critical issues. There is still a lot more work to be done - time is running out,” he said. “As I speak my ministerial facilitators and negotiators are rolling up their sleeves and working hard to find solutions to some of the most intractable issues.” The draft text of the Cop26 deal notes “with serious concern” that existing global agreements are insufficient to keep global warming to 1.5 degrees. The draft, which sets out what negotiators hope will be the outcome of Cop26 , asks countries to “revisit and strengthen the 2030 targets in their nationally determined contributions, as necessary to align with the Paris Agreement temperature goal by the end of 2022”. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  28

 28 : COP21_UK85
Recognizes Importance Of Emission Reduction As Means Of Combating Climate Change & Supporting Sustainable Development - His Excellency Ali Ibrahim Al Naimi, Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources outlines Kingdom’s position on climate change at COP 21 ’s High Level-Segment. - Kingdom committed to the use of solar and wind energy; carbon capture and storage; shift from liquid fuels to gas. - Research and development key to unlock clean energy potentials. - Kingdom willing to participate actively in the promotion and implementation of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia reinforced its commitment to the improvement of energy efficiency and recognizing the importance of emissions reduction as a means of combating climate change and supporting sustainable development programs. This was conveyed by His Excellency Ali Ibrahim Al-Naimi, Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources of Saudi Arabia at the High-Level Segment (HLS) of the United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP 21 ) currently in session in the French capital. “The Kingdom is committed to the improvement of energy efficiency; the use of solar and wind energy; carbon capture and storage; especially for use in enhanced oil recovery; the shift from liquid fuels to gas; and the promotion of research and development in the field of clean energy,” said the Minister when addressing the HLS. The HLS, attended by ministers and head of delegations, opened today to hear statements by representatives of groups and national statements by ministers and other heads of delegation during joint meetings of the COP 21 and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP 11). H.E Al-Naimi however stressed the importance of the new Paris Agreement, expected to be signed at the end of COP 21 , to take into account the principles and provisions of the current Framework Convention on Climate Change. “This includes, especially, the principle of Common But Differentiated Responsibilities (CBDR), based on the national priorities and circumstances of each country. In addition, the new agreement must strike a fair balance between greenhouse gas emissions reduction requirements and adaptation to the adverse effects of climate change, and must cover all sectors instead of focusing exclusively on the energy sector,” he said. In this context, the Minister called for the adoption of emission reduction policies that do not discriminate against any of the energy sources, and that these sources be viewed as complementary to each other in a way that contributes to the achievement of sustainable development for all. H.E A-Naimi also reaffirmed Saudi Arabia’s willingness to participate actively in the promotion and implementation of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. In this context, the Kingdom has submitted its Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs) on the economic diversification initiative in accordance with the economic diversification decision adopted during COP 18 in Doha. “Through this, the Kingdom will take action, adopt plans and implement programs designed to accelerate economic diversification and achieve the common benefits of avoiding greenhouse gas emissions, adaptation to the effects of climate change, and mitigation of the impacts of response measures,” the Minister said. H.E. Al-Naimi concluded by pointing out that the global nature of climate change required an effective and adequate international response in accordance with the CBDR, and the success of such response lies in achieving climate goals in a way that makes it possible to proceed with economic development in a sustainable manner. Saudi Arabia’s full INDC can be viewed at HYPERLINK www.ksa-cop.com and ~ HYPERLINK For more information visit the official KSA COP 21 www.ksa-cop.com . Follow us on Twitter at @KsaCop21 (Distributed by M2 Communications ( ~ HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  29

 29 : COP26_UK181
SO, COP26 came and went. Hate it or love it, the international climate conference, which finished last week was, if nothing else, a big conversation about the future of life on earth. More locally, while delegates in Glasgow were debating the difference between phasing-down and phasing-out coal usage, and whether a commitment is the same as a promise, a small group were out in Taunton High Street and Priorswood, having our own conversations with about 300 passers-by. At the beginning, our placards read ASK ME ABOUT COP26 , but by the end of week two, the text had been changed to TELL ME ABOUT COP26 , to reflect the fact that giving out information is not enough. And all the time we were accompanied by drawings by children of a planet on fire and the disappearance of yet another species, as an urgent reminder of what is at stake. Half of those we spoke to felt pessimistic about the possibility of change, or about the willingness of politicians to take adequate action. One person, perhaps sensing how quickly the media circus moves on, was already thinking about preparing for COP27 next year, and many had ideas for small contributions we all can make now. There were those that were in favour of moving from current Government Wild-West policies to more regulation to help us all stick to our resolutions. Some were anticipating the festive season: How about giving someone a one-cup kettle, or holding a post-Christmas bring-and-buy sale? A more ethical bank account, insurance policy or pension scheme might be more effective, but it doesnE2t have the same feel, does it? Much of the two weeks, I had Bob DylanE2s sombre Not Dark Yet going through my head, but often lightened by the generosity of many conversations about change, and the inspiring trumpeter Louis playing E2What a wonderful worldE2 in the background E2 and long may it be so! Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  30

 30 : COP21_UK44
On Sunday (29 November), as the United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP21 ) began in Paris, about 300 protesters clashed with riot police near Place de la Republique. Protests had begun peacefully, before a group of anarchists, allegedly led by the “black bloc” group, started launching projectiles at riot police who responded using batons and teargas. Around 200 arrests were made. Following the terrorist attacks in Paris on 13 November, a blanket ban has been imposed on demonstrations as part of a new set of emergency powers. French parliament recently voted to extend the state of emergency until late February 2016, which also grants the state the power to impose curfews, conduct warrantless searches, and place individuals deemed a risk to national security under house arrest. Significance: Before the start of the COP21 , security forces placed at least 24 climate activists, accused of planning demonstrations, under house arrest and seized several computers and documents. The pre-emptive detention of activists is giving momentum to the idea that emergency powers are being used to curb the right of assembly in order to suppress dissent. The hashtag “EtatPolicier” (PoliceState) began trending on Twitter on Sunday. The fact that other large public congregations such as trade fairs, Christmas markets, and other profitable commercial events, are allowed to go ahead in Paris during the same period is further exacerbating the sense of injustice. As a result, the risk of protest and riots is likely to increase over the coming weeks, particularly in Paris. Protests will be predominantly peaceful, but it is highly likely that there will be violent clashes on the fringes between police and activists, increasing risks to individuals of minor property damage, such as broken shop windows. The risk of violence, and blockades affecting transport infrastructure and cargo, is most likely in the closing days of the climate summit (11-12 December), although the risks will be somewhat mitigated by the presence of over 9,000 armed personnel. Risks: Protests and riots; Death and injury Sectors or assets affected: Infrastructure; Cargo
  31

 31 : COP26_UK146
Our sustainability strategy is ambitious, we’re aiming to reduce our carbon emissions by 25% by 2025 which is aligned to the Paris Agreement. Severfield has been managing and reporting our carbon emissions since 2014. More recently we’ve aligned our strategy to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (link to previous article) and committed to set Science Based Targets to reduce our emissions and reach Net Zero by 2050. Our sustainability strategy is ambitious, we’re aiming to reduce our carbon emissions by 25% by 2025 which is aligned to the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement was set in 2015 at COP21 and challenged members of the United Nations to set ambitious climate targets to limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius. This year sees COP26 come to Glasgow for the annual climate change conference. Subheading - What is COP26 ? COP26 is the 2021 United Nations annual climate change conference. COP stands for Conference of the Parties. Parties are the signatories of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) - a treaty agreed in 1994 which has 197 Parties (196 countries and the EU). The 2021 conference, hosted by the UK, together with partners Italy, in Glasgow, will be the 26th meeting of the Parties, which is why it’s called COP26 . United Nations climate change conferences are among the largest international meetings in the world. The negotiations between governments are complex and involve officials from every country in the world as well as representatives from civil society and the global news media. What happens at a COP26 ? Activity at a COP takes place in two different zones - the Blue Zone and the Green Zone. The Blue Zone is for people registered with the UN body tasked with coordinating the global response to the threat of climate change - the UNFCCC. In the Blue Zone you might be part of a national delegation, work for the United Nations and related organisations agencies or be a member of the media or not-for-profit observer organisation. In the Blue Zone, delegates from countries meet for both formal negotiations and informal consultations. They may also take part in meetings with other delegations to clarify their position and interests with the aim of reaching agreement or overcoming a negotiating deadlock. The UNFCCC will also host a range of events, including technical briefings, to support the negotiations process. The Green Zone is for the public. There will be a wide range of events, including workshops, art exhibitions and installations, as well as presentations, demonstrations of technology and musical performances for everyone to attend. How will Severfield participate? Our Group Sustainability Manager, Sara Halliday, will be attending COP26 to take part in a round table discussion, hosted by The Climate Group, on the topic of ‘Shifting Systems - industry: A net zero materials revolution’. Taking part on Tuesday 9 November, 8:00am - 9:30am, Sara will be discussing our recent commitment to SteelZero and how important the transition to low embodied carbon steel production is to the construction sector. Keep an eye out on our social media channels for how we are doing our bit in the race to Net Zero - we’ll be posting throughout COP26 . We’re also involved in an exciting project with Balfour Beatty, showcasing how we are engaged in their ambition to
‘Green The Chain’. The project will unfold across the course of COP26 . Want to know more? If you’re interested in reading more about COP26 In the run-up to COP26 , the BBC’s correspondents from around the world will be presenting a special series of programmes helping us make sense of the challenges facing our planet. From primers on the big issues, to the latest technological solutions, they explore what climate change means for us. Watch the series here If you have any suggestions, or questions about our sustainability strategy please get in touch with Sara Halliday ( HYPERLINK sara.halliday@severfield.com Contact: Fax: +44(0) 1845 577411 Email: HYPERLINK mailto:info@severfield.com info@severfield.com [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  32

 32 : COP23_UK191
In the medieval legend made famous by the brothers Grimm, the German town of Hamelin is besieged by a plague of rats, until the mysterious pied piper appears and agrees, for a fee, to rid them of the infestation. The mayor then reneges on payment and the piper exacts a savage revenge on the town’s ingrates by luring away their children, who are never seen again. The tale could also be an allegory for today’s grim intergenerational smash-and-grab - the global economy. As environmentalist Paul Hawken put it: “We have an economy where we steal the future, sell it in the present, and call it GDP.” Like the hapless mayor of Hamelin, elected officials all over the world are today blindly pursuing growth-as-usual, while the gathering climate catastrophe rumbles ever closer. We adults may, if we’re lucky, get to die peacefully in our beds, but it’s our children who will be left to pay the ecological piper. As COP23 Despite determined efforts by lobbyists to quash the case, it is now set to be heard in February 2018. “I have no doubt that the right to a climate system capable of sustaining human life is fundamental to a free and ordered society” was the view of US district judge Ann Aiken, in denying motions filed by the Trump administration opposing the suit. Last month NGO Friends of the Irish Environment (FIE) filed a legal challenge against the Irish government over its failure to take steps to honour its climate commitments under the Paris agreement, and so endangering future generations. The FIE suit is modelled on a successful similar action taken in the Dutch courts by the Urgenda Foundation. They ruled in 2015 that the Dutch government had acted unlawfully in failing to cut greenhouse gas emissions by at least 25% by 2020. Similar cases are being brought in New Zealand, India, the Philippines and South Africa, among others. Despite being on track for climate neutrality by 2030, the Norwegian government is being sued by citizen activists for issuing oil drilling licences in the Arctic Ocean, which make a mockery of its supposed domestic green credentials. Pope Francis, the first pontiff from the global south, weighed in powerfully on the moral arguments against the havoc to the biosphere wrought by neoliberalism: “The thirst for power and possessions knows no limits. In this system, which tends to devour everything which stands in the way of increased profits, whatever is fragile, like the environment, is defenceless before the interests of a deified market.” Geophysicist Dr Brad Werner made waves five years ago with the publication of his paper titled: Is Earth Fked? (the asterisks are his). When pressed for an answer to his own question, he ventured: “more or less”. In his analysis, the system itself is incapable of internally responding to the deepening ecological crises that encircle civilisation. The only possible hope, he suggested, lay in active resistance. He identified this as “environmental direct action, resistance taken from outside the dominant culture, as in protests, blockades and sabotage by indigenous peoples, workers and other activist groups”. Those who resist face arrest, harassment, and worse. Almost four murders a week of environmental and land defenders were recorded in 2016. With politicians failing to step up to the climate challenge, what are the alternatives? One intriguing experiment in direct democracy has just concluded in Ireland, where a government-appointed Citizens’ Assembly composed of a nationally representative group of people selected at random heard detailed expert testimony on climate change from a range of experts. No lobbyists or politicians were allowed in the room. The result: 13 recommendations for sharply enhanced climate action were overwhelmingly endorsed early this month, including citizens being personally prepared to pay more tax on high-carbon activities. The recommendations will now be discussed in parliament. Democracy may be dysfunctional, but rumours of its death have, perhaps, been exaggerated.
  33

 33 : COP22_UK294
Beyond the work of governments, other stakeholders such businesses, cities and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) have a crucial role to play in implementing the Paris Agreement on climate change, ‘Climate Champions’
Laurence Tubiana and Hakima El Haite said today in Marrakech, where the United Nations conference known as ’ COP 22 ’ is under way. Ms. Tubiana, French Ambassador on climate change, and Ms. El Haite, Moroccan Minister in charge of Environment, were appointed Climate Champions by the Conference of Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in Paris last year (COP 21), where nations adopted the landmark Agreement, which calls on countries to combat climate change and to accelerate and intensify the actions and investments needed for a sustainable low carbon future, and to adapt to the increasing impacts of the phenomenon. The two high-level Champions were tasked with heeding the call made at COP 21 and taking forward the idea that mobilizing stronger and more ambitious climate action by all Parties and non-Party stakeholders is urgently required if the Paris goals are to be achieved. Just last week, on 4 November when the Paris Agreement entered into force, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon convened at UN Headquarters in New York a special meeting with civil society representatives, thanking them for their courage, persistence and leadership in realizing the Paris Agreement and calling on them to “keep up the fight,” to press for action and to hold governments accountable. Ms. Tubiana and Ms. El Haite have meanwhile set out a detailed agenda to boost cooperative action between governments, cities, business, investors and citizens to cut emissions rapidly and help vulnerable nations adapt to climate impacts and build their own clean energy, sustainable futures. They have also launched a consultative process in order to seek the views of governments and non-State stakeholders on this vision. During COP 22 , several thematic days have been planned, including on forests, water, cities, energy, transport and agriculture. “In Paris, it was about momentum, enthusiasm and political commitment. Now the question is how we will implement and how we will conduct a race against time,” said Ms. Tubiana during a press conference in Marrakech on about the launch of the Champion’s ‘Global Climate Action Agenda’ to mobilize non-State actors. The [Agenda] “is really the response to this race against time that everyone, governments first, but also cities, businesses, civil society, indigenous people, youth, women movements” is part of, she added. “We can’t be complacent,” underscored Ms. Tubiana. “We have everything to do, we are lagging behind.” She added that the [Action Agenda] “is a way to accelerate the movement, to accelerate action, develop cooperation, to do it faster, better, cheaper and to get everyone on the same page [. . . ] It is about concrete action on the ground, how to transform the transport, how to have better cities, how really to stop deforestation,” she added. Ms. El Haite stressed that 80 per cent of the decisions on climate action are implemented by non-State actors. “I think it is very important for all of us to recognize that the non-State actors are already moving and there are many [actions], initiatives and coalitions and they are very active,” she said. “This is the first time we are building a real partnership between the non-State actors and the actors,” she added. “We think it is very important to have these partnerships. We have built for many years walls between the negotiators and the parties and the real world and the non-State actors. Today we need to build bridges between them.” Asked by the UN News Centre about the link between climate change and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Ms. Tubiana noted that there is a “single development agenda” and that climate is “a part of that development agenda.” “No doubt the negotiations on implementation are more advanced in the climate area than in other areas, but it is all the same thing [. . . ] There is one agenda that governments must implement and this new development model should really be supported by the citizens, the businesses, the financial sector in each country, and internationally,” she added. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  34

 34 : COP22_UK148
Hitachi on 5 September 2016, announced its set of long-term environmental targets with a view towards 2050, called Hitachi environmental innovation 2050 . In Hitachi environmental innovation 2050 , under its environmental vision which sets forth a vision for the company through environmental management, Hitachi has set targets such as achieving 80% reductions in CO2 emissions across the company’s value chain by fiscal 2050 compared with fiscal 2010, achieving a 50% improvement in the efficiency of the use of water and other resources by fiscal 2050 compared with fiscal 2010, and minimising the impact on natural capital; for building a low-carbon society, a resource efficient society, and a harmonised society with nature. Moving ahead, Hitachi will drive forward with initiatives towards the future achievement of these targets. In recent years, the will for society to work towards the reduction of environmental burdens, and towards the resolution of global environmental issues in the long term, has been demonstrated by agreements such as the Paris agreement adopted at the 2015 United Nations climate change conference 21st conference of the parties to the United Nations framework convention on climate change, COP21, and the 2030 Agenda for sustainable development adopted by a United Nations. Additionally, because the social innovation business that Hitachi is developing globally are long-term business operations relating to the construction of social infrastructure, a long-term environmental perspective is also essential in accelerating the development of these business operations. In light of these developments, and from a long-term perspective, Hitachi believes that it is necessary to take steps to combat environmental issues such as climate change, depletion of resources and destruction of ecosystems; and has therefore established the Hitachi environmental innovation 2050 as a set of long-term environmental targets to achieve by 2050. The outline of Hitachi environmental innovation 2050 is as follows. Long-term environmental targets: Hitachi environmental innovation 2050 Hitachi environmental innovation 2050 is a set of targets for 2050 established under the environmental vision that Hitachi will resolve environmental issues and achieve both a higher quality of life and a sustainable society through its social innovation business in collaborative creation with its stakeholders , whereby Hitachi will aim to globally build a low-carbon society, a resource efficient society, and a harmonised society with nature. 1. Realisation of a low-carbon society (1) Target Achieve 50% reductions in CO2 emissions by fiscal 2030, and 80% reductions by fiscal 2050 across the value chain compared to fiscal 2010 (2) Initiatives CO2 emissions at the Use stage of the product and solutions, which Hitachi delivers to customers, account for more than 90% of CO2 emissions in the entire Hitachi value chain. To reduce emissions at this stage, Hitachi is adopting the following four action policies. Continuous efforts are also being made to reduce emissions at the production stage. Move business structure to low-carbon model Develop innovative devices and materials that contribute to reduction of environmental burden Develop and provide super-efficient, energy-saving products and low-carbon energy d) Provide energy-conserving social system solutions through cooperative harmonisation between systems, across a wider area, and in an integrated way Realisation of a resource efficient society (1) Target Build a society that uses water and other resources efficiently and achieve a 50% improvement in usage efficiency of water and other resources by fiscal 2050 compared to fiscal 2010 in the Hitachi Group (2) Initiatives To maximise its contribution to the construction of a water and resource circulating society through its business operations, Hitachi will evolve a series of processes comprising of high-quality water production, purification, water supply and drainage and offer solutions to expand use of recycling. Further, it will create water resources through its global expansion of sea water desalination. Moreover, Hitachi will also implement the following policy measures with the aim of achieving a 50% improvement in usage efficiency of water and other resources by fiscal 2050 compared to fiscal 2010. a)Promote efficient use of resources and reduction of waste by manufacturing resource-saving products with long service lives, and shifting towards servicing and sharing of business)Promote recycling of resources through exhaustive product collection and recycling)Reduce volume of water use and reinforce drainage purification and reuse in production processes in accordance with regional water risks 3. Realisation of a Harmonised Society with Nature (1) Target Minimise the impact on natural capital
  35

 35 : COP23_UK179
November 10, 2017 New commitments and initiatives in energy, water and agriculture sectors were announced on Friday, at the United Nations Climate Conference ( COP23 ) in Bonn, Germany, under the auspices of the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action to help implement the Paris Agreement. The Marrakech Partnership aims at catalyzing greater climate action by public and private stakeholders as the Paris Agreement, adopted in 2015, calls on countries to combat climate change by limiting the rise of global temperature below 2 degrees Celsius and strive not to exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius. Cleaner energy development In Bonn, new initiatives were announced to push forward the transition to renewable energy and to show that more ambitious clean energy development can quickly become a bigger part of national climate plans submitted under the Paris Agreement.
“With the price of renewable and storage technologies tumbling, and greater understanding on how to set the policy table for a cleaner energy mix and more integrated energy planning, the question before decision makers is, why wait?” said Rachel Kyte, Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General and CEO, Sustainable Energy for All
(SE4All). Among key announcements, the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) released a new report, Untapped Potential for Climate Action: Renewable Energy in Nationally Determined Contributions, which suggests there is substantial scope for countries to cost-effectively increase renewable energy. The Climate Group also announced new members to its recently launched EV100 campaign, a major new global electric transport initiative designed to make electric vehicles “the new normal.” And 13 countries with the International Energy Agency (IEA) announced this week the launch of a new multi-year, 30 million euros plan to support clean energy transitions around the world. Investing faster and further in agricultural climate action Regarding agriculture, leaders and experts said that investing faster and further in agricultural climate action and to support the sustainable livelihoods of small-scale farmers will unlock much greater potential to curb emissions and protect people against climate change. “Countries now have the opportunity to transform their agricultural sectors to achieve food security for all through sustainable agriculture and strategies that boost resource-use efficiency, conserve and restore biodiversity and natural resources, and combat the impacts of climate change,” said Rene Castro, Assistant-Director General of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). In the livestock sector, for example, FAO estimates that emissions could be readily reduced by about 30 percent with the adoption of best practices. FAO released a new Sourcebook on Climate-Smart Agriculture. It recommends scaling up public and private climate finance flows to agriculture; spurring public-private partnerships; strengthening a multi-sector and multi-stakeholder dialogue; investing in knowledge and information; and building capacity to address barriers to implement climate action. Managing healthy water supplies “Sustainable use of water for multiple purposes must remain a way of life and needs to be at the center of building resilient cities and human settlements and ensuring food security in a climate change context,” said Mariet Verhoef-Cohen, President of the Women for Water Partnership. The international water community co-signed on Friday what it called a “nature based solution declaration” to encourage the use of natural systems in managing healthy water supplies. Around 40 per cent of the world’s population will face water shortages by 2050, accelerating migration and triggering conflict, while some regions could lose up to six per cent of their economic output, unless it is better managed. “Involving both women and men in decision making and integrated water resources initiatives leads to better sustainability, governance and efficiency”, said Ms. Verhoef-Cohen.
  36

 36 : COP22_UK16
November 14, 2016 Over the next two weeks of COP22 , the Africa Pavilion will feature a dynamic program of round-tables, conferences and bilateral meetings, where key issues of adaptation and mitigation; green industrialization; agriculture; transport; health; water and sanitation; biodiversity and innovation will be discussed MARRAKECH, Morocco – The 22nd Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ( COP22 ) kick-started Monday, 7 November in Marrakesh (Morocco). A collaborative partnership between the Africa Development Bank (AfDB), the African Union Commission (AUC), the Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) and the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) established the Africa Pavilion in the blue zone of the COP22 village, dedicated to engagement, networking and dialogue. The Pavilion also aims to provide a platform for the voices of the continent to be heard. The Pavilion embodies the united front of an Africa “speaking with one voice” in articulating its interests given the high stakes of climate change negotiations Over the next two weeks of COP22 , the Africa Pavilion will feature a dynamic program of round-tables, conferences and bilateral meetings, where key issues of adaptation and mitigation; green industrialization; agriculture; transport; health; water and sanitation; biodiversity and innovation will be discussed. Both COP21 President and French Minister of the Environment, Energy and the Sea, in charge of international climate negotiations, Segol’e8ne Royal and COP22 President and Moroccan Minister of Foreign Affairs Salaheddine Mezouar, visited the Africa pavilion in the early days of COP22 . The pavilion is drawing crowds with its unique architecture and interesting features such as living green walls. Several African heads of State and high level officials are also expected to visit the pavilion during the High level week of COP22 , and especially on Africa Day, Wednesday 16 November 2016. COP22 is the fourth COP to take place on African soil - the second time in Morocco
- presenting an important opportunity to place special emphasis on the continent’s needs and proposals. Africa is among the world’s regions most vulnerable to climate change and its key priorities include ensuring that global ambitions and historic responsibilities regarding means of implementation, particularly predictable financing, to facilitate low carbon climate resilient development are in line with the continent’s development goals. COP22 is dubbed the COP of action, providing a clear roadmap for the implementation of commitments made in the Paris Agreement which came into force on 4 November 2016.
  37

 37 : COP23_UK133
Interview:~Hassan Sentissi HASSAN SENTISSI : Plan Halieutis outlined ambitions for the fisheries and seafood processing industry to achieve by 2020. These include bringing its contribution to GDP to Dh21.9bn
((EURO)2.03bn), significantly reducing informal activities and increasing our global fisheries market share by 2%, to $3.1bn ((EURO)2.6bn). Morocco is looking to increase production and employment opportunities. In the period between 2016 and 2017, we particularly noticed supply-chain improvements, with the quality of catches and landings greatly enhanced through the use of ice and standardised containers. This better enabled us to have higher-quality raw materials delivered to transformation plants. However, significantly more work must be done to modernise fishing fleets, offer education and training opportunities for seafarers and improve port infrastructure. There is also a need to accelerate the creation of competitiveness clusters in the northern and southern regions, which would enable us to further diversify into international markets. This would also encourage innovation and research and development in terms of preparation, products, packaging and marketing - particularly in the canning industry. Morocco has the potential to produce up to 1.2m tonnes of canned goods per year, and investments in research and development would enable us to reach this goal over the next few years. What are the biggest impediments to the development of domestic fish stocks? SENTISSI : Morocco’s maritime areas accommodate authentic and unique species. It is the world’s leading exporter and producer of sardines. Therefore, there are enormous efforts to be made in terms of innovation, from production to commercialisation. However, the richness of the sea fluctuates, and Morocco is wary of overfishing as it can be a detriment to the ecosystem that the industry and fish both rely upon. As a result, there are limits of up to 20% of fish stocks to allow species to develop. In the Mediterranean, for example, a variety of stocks, such as red mullets, anchovies and sardines, are depleted as a result of overfishing, and therefore protecting these types of fish could go a long ways towards not only protecting the species, but mitigating the negative effects of ocean pollution on stockpiling and development. Though the effects have not been exactly measured yet, Morocco has already committed itself to take action against ocean pollution following the COP22 UN Conference on Climate Change and the Blue Belt Initiative. What is still lacking, however, is a well-defined and disseminated strategy. In what ways is the fishing industry diversifying and innovating its capabilities? SENTISSI : The fisheries segment is increasingly looking to diversify its products and capabilities. Recycling and maximising the use of resources is another goal for the industry. Resulting from growth fuelled by various sectors, every bit of the fish can be used. For instance, the Department of Fisheries launched tender bids for canning factories at Boujdour and Dakhla to develop more innovative products. We have also been solicited by other African countries to help create investment and development strategies for their fishery segments, because fishing has such a long tradition in the kingdom. The fish canning industry, for example, dates back to the 1920s. We have since developed a knowledge and mastery of seafood processing. Our port infrastructures have developed; our factories are highly rated according to international standards; and export market demand has increased each year.
  38

 38 : COP24_UK244
C’f4te d’Ivoire is moving forward with plans to build its first biomass power stations, part of wider efforts to respond to rising domestic energy demand and increase the role of renewables in the energy mix. In July Ivorian energy company Soci’e9t’e9 des Energies Nouvelles signed a memorandum of understanding with the US Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) to develop a CFA154bn ((EURO)234.8m) power plant fuelled by cocoa waste. As part of the agreement, USTDA will provide a $996,000 grant for feasibility studies, which are expected to be completed by 2019. Located near the southern city of Divo, the facility is expected to have an installed capacity of between 60 MW and 70 MW and become operational in 2023. In addition to saving an estimated 250,000 tonnes of CO2 per year, the project will also help the country reduce the amount of cocoa waste it produces - currently estimated to be around 26m tonnes annually - and provide a new source of revenue for cocoa farmers. In tandem with the Divo project, Biokala, a subsidiary of local agro-business group SIFCA, and the France-based energy firm EDF are moving forward with a project to build a CFA105bn ((EURO)160.1m) palm oil biomass plant in Aboisso in the county’s south-east. Once it becomes fully operational in 2020, the plant is projected to convert around 400,000 tonnes of palm oil into an estimated 288 GWh of electricity per year. Biomass and hydropower key to meeting climate change commitments The development of the biomass projects comes amid HYPERLINK governmental efforts to diversify the country’s energy mix and increase the role of renewables . As a signatory of the COP21 UN Conference on Climate Change , C’f4te d’Ivoire has committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 28% by 2030, as well as increasing the share of electricity generated by renewables from current levels of 20% to 42%. As of 2017 some 80% of total electricity generation was generated by natural gas, 19% by hydropower and around 1% by renewables, according to the Ministry of Petroleum, Energy and Renewable Energy Development. To that end, in November last year the country’s largest hydroelectric power plant opened at Naoua Falls , near the city of Soubr’e9. The development of the 275-MW project was undertaken by the China-based Power Construction Corporation, with financing coming from the Export-Import Bank of China and the Ivorian state. The operation of the plant has since been transferred to the state-owned utilities body operator CI-Energies. In addition, four other large-scale hydropower projects are slated for completion by 2030, adding an additional 595 MW of capacity, while the government has unveiled plans to construct a series of smaller hydropower facilities, which are expected to add 81 MW over the period. Renewables expansion to open up private investment opportunities The transition towards renewables and the subsequent increase in electricity generation is also expected to lead to $9bn worth of new investment opportunities for the private sector by 2030. The government plans to HYPERLINK increase overall domestic generation capacity to 4000 MW by 2020 and 6000 MW by 2030, up from current levels of around 2200 MW. Of this, the World Bank-backed International Finance Corporation (IFC) estimates biomass capacity alone to total 1200 MW, while CI-Energies puts the figure at 1650 MW. Unlocking this potential presents opportunities for private-sector investment, given that the authorities have set a maximum selling price of CFA62 ((EURO)0.09) per KWh for biomass, considerably higher than the CFA24.78 ((EURO)0.04) per KWh that the government pays to purchase energy from the Azito thermal power plant in Abidjan. However, according to the IFC’s recent report on C’f4te d’Ivoire, the renewable energy sector presents several challenges for stakeholders: procedural regulations regarding the confirmation of the availability, security and calorific testing of biomass supply still need to be clarified. Additionally, the IFC report states that biomass projects necessitate the involvement of the Ministry and Agriculture, and the procedures to do so are not streamlined, causing most projects, such as the Abiosso plant, to be implemented on a case-by-case basis.
  39

 39 : COP21_UK188
Small island countries facing flooding from rising sea levels are closing in on a deal with wealthy countries that would see loss and damage support measures included in the HYPERLINK global climate accord to be finalised in Paris this week . Developed countries have been resisting such a move for more than a year, fearing it could make them liable for billions of dollars in compensation. But Miguel Arias Ca’f1ete, EU climate commissioner, told the Financial Times there was now a growing understanding that loss and damage provisions would be included in the Paris agreement, as long as they did not expose wealthy countries to new claims for compensation. A draft text of the agreement was finalised on Saturday. Mr Arias Ca’f1ete said a meeting that Barack Obama, US president, had with five island leaders last week at the Paris talks, known as COP21 , had helped smooth the way for a compromise on what has become one of the more divisive issues in UN climate talks in recent years. I am very glad that the US is showing flexibility because from the very beginning of this process we have supported this concept of course with adequate language [on compensation], he said. But he added: There is one thing that we do not accept and will not accept in this agreement and that is the notion that there should be liability and compensation for loss and damage. That is a line that we can’ t cross. This is not a US-centric position but it is a position that is important for us. It is still unclear what type of loss and damage measures might make it into the final accord that delegates from nearly 200 nations are due to seal this Friday. The draft text of the agreement called for a climate change displacement co-ordination facility to be set up to relocate people affected by the fierce storms and other extreme weather scientists say is more likely as global temperatures rise. The text also says plans to address irreversible and permanent damage resulting from human-induced climate change should be completed within four years. Island country delegates said they were very pleased wealthy countries were no long rejecting outright the notion that their failure to combat global warming meant extra support was needed for small, poor countries facing a threat to their existence. But James Fletcher of St Lucia, the small Caribbean island state, said the question of how to frame loss and damage support in the Paris agreement was still a stumbling block. We believe we already have avenues for liability and compensation under international law and international agreements, he said. The discussion going on right now is a discussion among lawyers. How do we end up with a text that allays the fears of the US, the EU and other countries that we are creating a mechanism for liability and compensation. And how do you address our concern that we do not give up any rights that we presently already have under international agreements. UN climate talks have been held for more than 20 years without managing to produce the deep cuts in global emissions from burning fossil fuels that scientists say are required to avert dangerous levels of global warming. HYPERLINK Listen to the FT News podcast
  40

 40 : COP25_UK136
A group of activists from Berwickshire joined fellow Extinction Rebellion rebels in Edinburgh last week to target the Scottish investment company Baillie Gifford. It was part of a two week campaign across Scotland against the fossil fuel industry, and in particular Shell, one of the top ten fossil fuel companies who are responsible for 35 per cent of all carbon emissions worldwide. Pauline Stewart from Longformacus and Kate Duncan from Paxton locked themselves together to block the entrance to Baillie Gifford offices, chosen because it manages MSPs pension funds and has just increased their investment in Shell, by 19 per cent Pauline said: “We fail to see how MSPs can properly regulate the oil and gas industry when their pension money helps fund it.” Once in place, the two were joined by around 70 rebels who sat in solidarity on the pavement, or stood with banners, handing out leaflets, singing and engaging with passers by. Kate Duncan said: “Bailie Gifford and MSPs say they care deeply about the impact of climate change - and they may do but they need some joined up thinking.”We say they must stop funding the industry that is the root cause of the problem. “People pay into pensions to provide for their futures, but investing in the oil industry funds the destruction of the planet, all our futures, our children’s, my grandchildren’s futures.” Out on the chilly street, Dr Shelagh King from XR Scottish Borders, was engaging with the public. She reported: “A few raised eyebrows but most said they shared our anxiety, our terror, about the climate crisis and supported our actions.”They’ve seen fires ripping across Australia, they’ve seen the melting glaciers in the Arctic, Greenland and the Antartic. “The suddenness and severity of it has shocked so many of us, despite our acute awareness of the dangers.” The peaceful and good-natured action, attended by a heavy police presence, lasted eleven hours, from dawn till dusk, eventually ending when the Police and Extinction Rebellion negotiated the unlocking with no arrests and no charges. This year COP 26, The United Nations Climate Change Conference will be held in Glasgow. Politicians will be under increasing pressure to take action if we are to counter the worst effects of global warming.
  41
