 1 : COP26_UK324
As the landmark COP26 summit in Glasgow got under way, local people - including activists from Extinction Rebellion, the West Berks Climate Action Network (WBCAN) and Friends of the Earth’s Newbury branch - came together for a climate vigil in St John’s Church, Newbury. The event took place on Monday evening, with St John’s vicar, the Rev Gray Collins, setting out to create a space for discussion and reflection on the state of the local and global environment. WBCAN spokeswoman Claire Willsher said of the event: “On the eve of COP26 , our last best chance to save humanity, it felt so poignant to be able to sit quietly and reflect on the enormity of this moment.”It also gave me hope to be among people from all different walks of life who have come together to support the same cause.” In the run-up to COP26 , churches across the UK rang their bells, and Newbury places of worship joined with this expression, intended as a warning over the consequences of climate inaction. Friends of the Earth member Susan Millington - who was also in attendance at the vigil - said: “It was a powerful event.”I found it very moving.
“Many thanks to Rev Collins for creating such a welcoming and nourishing space for us to reflect.”I was particularly affected by the juxtaposition of beautiful, quiet music within the church together with the discordant tone of the bells ringing out across Newbury. “I felt linked with people throughout the country by those bells.” Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  2

 2 : COP22_UK21
Toulouse, - ATR is present at the high-profile UN Climate Change Conference COP22 , in Marrakech, Morocco, from November 7-18, 2016. ATR is an integral partner and advocate in the global aviation community’s fight against climate change. The company has demonstrated its efforts and determination by joining the Convention through concrete actions. ATR designs and builds more eco-efficient means of transport to connect people and communities and strives to reduce the environmental impact of its airplanes throughout their life-cycle. Today, ATR 72-600 has the lowest fuel consumption per seat in its category. These actions are part of ATR’s broader strategy built around the global environmental targets set for the industry. Together with other airframe and engine manufacturers, airlines, fuel suppliers, airports, and governments, ATR is working toward collective industry goals. These include 1.5% average annual fuel efficiency improvement through 2020, carbon neutral growth from 2020, and a 50% reduction in CO2 by 2050 relative to 2005 baseline levels. A sustainable and eco-responsible aviation industry leader, ATR participates in aeronautic events on the role of the world’s regional connectivity in adapting to climate change. ATR Senior Vice President Commercial and Customer Support Tom Anderson today took the floor to present ATR’s key environmental priorities at the COP22 aviation side event. ‘ATR is fully committed to responsible travel. Each year 300 million passengers travel on regional aircraft that serve around 3,500 airports across the world. We strive every day to promote solutions that facilitate the development of regional connectivity in a sustainable way,’ explained Tom Anderson. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  3

 3 : COP22_UK253
At the United Nations Climate Conference under way in Marrakech, Morocco, known as ’ COP 22 ,’ more than 45 of the world’s countries that are most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change pledged today to pursue robust action towards implementation of the landmark Paris Agreement. “We will survive and thrive,” the countries said through the Marrakech Communique, a joint declaration by the Climate Vulnerable Forum (CVF), the international partnership of countries that are disproportionately affected by the impacts of climate change. It aims to exert additional pressure for action to tackle the challenge. CVF members include countries from several regions of the world, from Maldives to Costa Rica, to Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Tuvalu, Madagascar, and Nepal. They adopted their declaration as part of the work of the 22nd Conference of Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), which has been meeting in Marrakech since Monday 7 November and wraps up today. The country’s expressed solidarity with fellow member, Haiti, devastated by Hurricane Matthew, a humanitarian catastrophe amplified by capability constraints clearly overwhelming any capacity to adapt in a “now all-too familiar repetition of disaster.” In the declaration, the CVF emphasized that any country with a nationally determined contribution (NDC) not yet compliant with its fair share consistent with the Paris Agreement’s long-term goal “must update these contributions by 2020 at the latest.” They pledged to green their economies as their contribution “towards achieving net carbon neutrality and 100 per cent renewable energy.” They also expressed their commitment to develop and submit updated NDCs as early as possible before 2020, emphasizing that “additional enabling support on means of implementation from donors, especially capacity building, is indispensable to any upscaled mitigation and adaptation action by our countries.” “We will plot a clear path to the future,” added members of the Climate Vulnerable Forum, pledging to prepare long-term strategies before 2020 to attain maximal resilience. “We have all gathered here today to fight the good fight,” said Dr. Gemedo Dale, Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change of Ethiopia, who chaired a CVF meeting at COP 22 today. “Although our contribution [to climate change] is insignificant, the impact that [it] has brought on us is very high, and we are here together to make sure that we have a say in our future”, he added. “We invite all CVF members to pursue robust domestic climate action.” The Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC, Patricia Espinosa, stressed that the level of ambition and the vision expressed by the most vulnerable countries “is needed now more than ever.” “We welcome this document adopted by the members of the Climate Vulnerable Forum and we assure you of our support for the implementation of this vision,” she emphasized. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  4

 4 : COP23_UK160
Emmanuel Macron has vowed to replace every dollar that is withdrawn from the UN’s climate change programme by Donald Trump. The French President told a UN climate summit in Bonn, Germany, that France would step in to cover the cost of US contributions to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) that Mr Trump has said he will withdraw. “I can guarantee that, starting in 2018, the IPCC will have all the money it needs and will continue to support our decision-making,” he said. “It will not miss a single euro.” “We need scientific information that is constantly nourished to ensure clear decision making. The IPCC is one of the major components of this work. Read more UN chief says time running out to prevent catastrophic climate change”However, it is threatened today by the decision of the US not to guarantee funding for it. Therefore, I propose that the EU replaces the USA, and France will meet that challenge.” The US currently contributes around (EURO)2 million
(£31.8 million) a year to the IPCC. However, Mr Trump has pledged to pull the US out of the 2015 Paris Agreement and other international climate change initiatives. He also plans to promote coal and other fossil fuel industries. In his speech, Mr Macron also called for an EU tariff on goods imported from countries or companies that do not share its climate goals, and pledged to work to raise the cost of carbon within the EU to (EURO)30 a tonne. Representatives from almost 200 countries are currently meeting at the 23rd Conference of the Parties ( COP23 ) summit in Bonn, where discussions are focusing on how the Paris Agreement should be implemented. German Chancellor Angela Merkel also addressed the summit, telling delegates: “Climate change is by far the most significant struggle of our time.” Read more Trump’s climate advisor ‘doesn’t know what key climate target is’ Al Gore says voting Trump out in 2020 could save Paris Agreement US ‘should be kicked out of UN climate talks because of Trump’ Trump is not invited to our next climate change summit, says France She praised a group of US states, cities and companies, called “America’s Pledge”, that have vowed to continue tackling climate change despite Mr Trump’s stance. “I welcome this as it highlights the importance of climate protection in large parts of the US regardless of the decision by President Trump to leave the Paris accord”, Ms Merkel said. However, her speech was criticised by some Green MPs in Germany for not going far enough. Ms Merkel is currently in the middle of delicate negotiations with the party about entering into a governing coalition with her Christian Democratic party.
  5

 5 : COP21_UK40
Taipei, Taiwan - Delta announced that it joined the ‘Road to Paris’ initiative by the Carbon Disclosure Project and has committed to a 30% reduction in its electricity intensity by the year 2020, which follows a 50% reduction already achieved by the company over the past five years. Delta Electronics will actively participate in a series of events that reflect its commitment to sustainability during the upcoming COP21 . Delta will present its 21 green buildings, which it has constructed over the past 10 years, at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. In addition, Delta will organize a side event, which has been approved by the United Nations COP21 General Secretariat, to share its knowledge and achievements in energy savings and the construction of green buildings. Mr. Ping Cheng, chief executive officer of Delta Electronics, emphasized, ‘Delta has a long-term commitment to sustainability. From 2010 to 2014, we successfully reduced our electricity intensity (electricity use per product value) by 50% compared to 2009 and in the past 10 years we have constructed 21 green buildings. Delta is now enhancing our commitment by engaging in the CDP’s Road to Paris initiative and promising a further 30% reduction in electricity intensity by 2020, and we are expanding our commitment to the whole group.’ Ms. Shan-Shan Guo, chief brand officer of Delta Electronics and executive director of Delta Electronics Foundation, said, ‘Delta is honored to have received permission by the UN COP21 General Secretariat to organize a side event at the Climate Generations areas during COP21 . After 10 years of implementing green buildings, we wish to share our experience by organizing a side event and hosting the ’Delta 21 Green Buildings at COP21 Exhibition’ at the Grand Palais, and show the world the efforts of a corporation that is deeply committed to sustainability.’ Since 2007, the Delta Electronics Foundation has attended the UN Climate Change Conferences annually, and in 2014, it hosted a side event in which Delta introduced their experience on rebuilding the Namasia Elementary School. Over the years, Delta’s efforts to reduce carbon emissions have been recognized by international organizations such as the CDP, which selected Delta for its Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) in 2014-the only company chosen from the Greater China region. For the past five consecutive years, Delta has also been a member of the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) World Index and was a leader in the ICT Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Components in 2015. 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP21 ) will be the most important climate change conference in the past 10 years. We expect the participating countries to reach an agreement to reduce carbon emissions. During COP21 , Delta will use its advanced ‘edge-blending’ projection capabilities to exhibit its entire portfolio of green buildings inside the Grand Palais in Paris, France. The Delta Electronics Foundation will also organize a side event to share Delta’s contributions on green buildings and carbon footprint reduction. Contact: Delta Group 186, Ruey Kuang Road Neihu, Taipei 11491 Taiwan, R.O.C Tel: +886-2-8797-2088 Email: HYPERLINK mailto:news@delta.com.tw news@delta.com.tw [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  6

 6 : COP24_UK87
A rulebook to implement a climate change agreement has been called a baby step by environmentalists amid claims that world leaders are not taking the issue seriously. A total of 195 countries, all signatories of the Paris agreement in 2016, agreed a common rulebook for reporting progress on emissions. It requires every country to follow a set of standards for measuring their emissions and tracking their policies. More recently, the COP24 summit negotiations, which finished on Saturday in Katowice, Poland, also agreed that countries would step up their plans to cut emissions before another round of talks in 2020. COP24 postponed any pledges for more ambitious emission reductions until next year. It also provided no clarity on how to account for the financial pledges in the Paris agreement, which included a goal of $100 billion to help developing countries tackle global warming by 2020. Ireland has consistently been criticised for its efforts to mitigate climate change, which will not meet its EU targets for 2020 and thus result in fines of up to (EURO)600 million a year. Oisin Coghlan, spokesman for the Stop Climate Chaos coalition of environmental groups, said that the negotiations failed to adequately respond to the catastrophic impacts of climate change. He added that there was no clear commitment to strengthen emission pledges. “At this climate conference negotiators took baby steps, when we need a giant leap,” he said. “Thankfully communities and campaigners around the world are forging ahead to create the just transition we so desperately need. The people will lead and politicians will follow.” A report from the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change this year said that emissions would have to be cut by nearly half by 2030 to keep average temperature rises to no more than 1.5C. The report said that a twodegree increase would wipe out most Arctic summer sea ice and 99 per cent of the world’s coral reefs. Clodagh Daly, spokeswoman for the Friends of the Irish Environment charity, said she was disappointed that aspects of the Paris agreement, including emission trading between countries, were not negotiated. She said it was vital that loopholes in achieving emission targets were not permitted. “Unfortunately the substantive decision has been left to next year, effectively moving environmental integrity of the Paris agreement into the long grass,” she added. Richard Bruton, the environment minister, said the COP24 talks were a “significant milestone” but that international co-operation was crucial to tackling climate change. He said Ireland was fully committed to implementing the Paris agreement. “The agreed rules put in place the structures for tracking global emissions, providing capacity-building and financial support and facilitating action to adapt to the impacts of climate change,” he said. “We must step up our response across the board.” Mr Bruton also announced a new “all of government” climate plan setting out each department’s duties. The plan was criticised for not including an analysis of how far Ireland was from reaching its emissions targets. Last week, the Environmental Protection Agency ranked Ireland the worst-performing country in Europe for climate change action for the second year in a row. (EURO)600m Annual fines Ireland faces for failing to meet its 2020 EU emissions targets Source: D’e1il Public Accounts Committee
  7

 7 : COP25_UK169
January 29, 2020 HYPERLINK British High Commission in Bangladesh organised a discussion to convey the UK’s ambition for this year’s COP26 and its growing collaboration with Bangladesh. On 27 January, the British High Commission in Bangladesh invited government, academic and civil society representation to the High Commissioner’s residence to convey the UK’s ambition for this year’s UN climate change conference (COP26) and its growing collaboration with Bangladesh for advancing the climate agenda towards COP26 and beyond. British High Commissioner HE Robert Chatterton Dickson opened the discussion by reflecting on the global outcomes of COP25 and setting out the UK ambition for COP26. The High Commisssioner said “Climate change is the defining issue of our time. The UK and Bangladesh can form a great partnership to lead global efforts to tackle it. Our combined expertise and leadership mean we can work together to raise the world’s ambition before and during COP26, seeking global commitment on adapting to climate impacts and building resilience for the future.” Mr Ziaul Hasan ndc, Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) and United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Focal Point for Bangladesh, delivered the keynote speech. Mr Ziaul Hasan ndc was joined by four distinguished participants of COP25 : Sultana Afroz, Additional Secretary, Economic Relations Division, Ministry of Finance, Dr Saleemul Huq, Director, International Centre for Climate Change and Development (ICCAD) and Adviser to the Least Developed Countries Group in UNFCCC; Mohammed Malik, Infrastructure Development Company Ltd.; Sharaban Tahura Zaman, Lecturer, Department of Law, North South University, and LDCs group negotiator at COP25 . The panellists reflected on the process and outcomes of COP25 , the journey to COP26, and opportunities for the UK and Bangladesh to raise global ambition to reduce the emissions gap. DFID Country Representative Judith Herbertson, delivered the closing remarks on UK-Bangladesh cooperation beyond COP26. She said that DFID is planning a new programme to support adaptation to, and mitigation of, climate change as well as environmental management in Bangladesh. The DFID Country Reepresentative said The UK, in partnership with Italy, will host COP26 this year in November in Glasgow. More than 30,000 people are expected to attend the conference, including heads of state and government; experts; and campaigners. Delegates will be discussing ambitious ways in which the world can lower emissions to keep global temperatures below 1.5 degrees of warming. While the UK is gearing up for the presidency of COP26, Bangladesh is advancing its preparation to lead the Climate Vulnerable Forum and the Locally-Led Adaptation Action Track of the Global Commission on Adaptation (GCA). And leading up to COP26, the UK intends to build a stronger partnership with countries like Bangladesh; a vulnerable country but increasingly resilient to climate impacts. As the leading voice against climate impacts, Bangladesh can play a more significant role in the global climate change discourse through COP26. The UK is already a key partner to Bangladesh on disaster management and resilience building. Since 2008, UK and Bangladesh jointly helped over 27 million people gain access to early warning systems for floods and cyclones, and provided emergency assistance and recovery support after disasters to more than 900,000 people. Further information British High Commission Dhaka United Nations Road Baridhara Dhaka - 1212 Dhaka Bangladesh Email: HYPERLINK mailto:Dhaka.Press@fco.gov.uk Dhaka.Press@fco.gov.uk Follow the British High commissioner to Bangladesh on Twitter: @RCDicksonUK
  8

 8 : COP21_UK242
Click here for full-size image epa05048570 United Nations climate chief Christiana Figueres (L), greets US President Barack Obama (C) as French President Francois Hollande, (R), looks on as Obama arrives for the COP21 , United Nations Climate Change Conference , in Le Bourget, outside Paris, France, 30 November 2015. The 21st Conference of the Parties ( COP21 ) is held in Paris from 30 November to 11 December aimed at reaching an international agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions and curtail climate change. EPA/CHRISTOPHE ENA / POOL MAXPP OUT IMAGE ID: EPALIVE926436 HYPERLINK Subject to copyright. Click here for information regarding redistribution of this image.
  9

 9 : COP21_UK266
A short film by a member of trip hop grounp Massive Attack about the influence of fossil fuel corporations on climate change negotiations will premiere on Friday in Paris where crucial UN talks are continuing. The dark satire features an original score by 3D - also known as Massive Attack’s Robert Del Naja - and Mercury prize winners Young Fathers. It stars Fiona O’Shaughnessy , the lead in TV thriller Utopia and Natasha O’Keeffe from the BBC’s Peaky Blinders and Sherlock as an executive from oil giant ExxonMobil. Related: Everything you need to know about the Paris climate summit and UN talks The film, shot in black and white, features a woman at a drug-fuelled party overlooking the bright lights of the Eiffel tower, as she identifies oil executives, spin doctors and government advisers in dark corners using a facial recognition camera. “La F’eate est Finie (The Party is Over)” was devised to coincide with the COP21 conference in Paris, also known as the Conference of the Parties. It will be premiered at Le Trianon theatre in Paris ahead of performances by Thom Yorke, Patti Smith and Flea for the Pathway to Paris concert. In a statement about the film, 3D and co-director Mark Donne said: “As with any party, the skill is in knowing when to leave. For decades fossil fuel extracting trans-nationals and western governments have continued to dance and partake long after the bright lights of climate science evidence were switched on and the deafening music of denial had its plug pulled.” The film is rooted in Donne’s experiences working as a journalist and researcher in Westminster where he said he was in close contact with corporate lobbyists. Donne, who directed and produced the film with Joe Morris, told the Guardian: “I was always struck by just how close those relationships are - how commonplace and everyday they are - and the sheer level of situational lobbying that goes on which often isn’t recorded in formal meetings with ministers and special advisers and the policy capture that’s able to be achieved via those gateways and those methods. Quite often these things are in spaces of hospitality, as with our film.” The release of the film follows an unauthorised advertising campaign by activists on the opening weekend of the conference in which fake adverts satirising the corporate sponsors and politicians at COP21 appeared at bus stops across Paris. A recent survey of 10 COP21 sponsors revealed that most are failing to meet EU targets on emissions reductions and do not publish relevant data on their carbon footprint. Recalling how former UK prime minister Tony Blair’s closest aide Angela Hunter left in 2001 to take a communications role at BP, he said: “There are endless examples of that and I don’t think the public understand the extent of it. We’re certainly not saying there shouldn’t be constructive engagement with these important transnationals - those conversations have to go on - but when we’re talking about the level of emergency that we’re in with climate change, we need to look at the level of influence these people have.”
  10

 10 : COP23_UK5
A coalition of US cities, companies and other groups has pledged to stay committed to the Paris agreement on climate change, despite President Donald Trump initiating America’s withdrawal from it. The accord was signed in December 2015 by nearly 200 countries in an effort to curb carbon emissions and limiting global warming to under 2’b0C. Called the We Are Still In coalition, the group set up a pavilion outside of the official United Nations climate change conference ( COP23 ) venue in Bonn, Germany, where countries - including the US - are meeting for the next few weeks to negotiate how the Paris agreement will be implemented. Republicans and Democrats alike make up the We Are Still In coalition, which has more than 1,000 CEOs, mayors and governors in the US. The purpose of the pavilion is to showcase how Americans are still fighting climate change in spite of the Trump administration’s efforts to dismantle Obama-era environmental regulations. The coalition claims it represents more than 130 million Americans and $6.2trn (£34.7trn) of annual economic output. Fiji, which is presiding over this year’s UN talks, welcomed the coalition as a “perfect example” of how the Paris accord aims to widen action beyond national governments.” THE INDEPENDENT
  11

 11 : COP25_UK2
MADRID, Spain – What: Africa Day When: 10 December 2019 Where: Room 3, Hall 4 at IFEMA Conference Centre, Madrid Time: 18:30 to 20:00 Who: Jointly organized by the African Union Commission, African Development Bank (AfDB.org), and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa Officials, experts, activists and journalists are invited to take part and cover the Africa Day at the COP25 conference in Madrid on 10 December 2019, in room 3 at the IFEMA Conference Centre. During this event, leaders will provide an update of the global commitments made at the world’s leading climate change meeting. Africa Day marks Africa’s presence and participation at the various United Nations Climate Change Conference (UNFCCC) sessions since COP 17. Africa Day provides a platform for the continent’s decision makers and other stakeholders to engage in a dialogue that informs the region’s course of action around climate change. The discussions will touch on effective means of implementation (finance, capacity building, and technology development and transfer) of the Paris Agreement. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). Media Contacts: African Union Esther Azaa Tankou Head of Information Division Directorate of Information and Communication African Union Commission Email: HYPERLINK mailto:YambouE@africa-union.org YambouE@africa-union.org African Development Bank Gershwin Wanneburg Communication and External Relations Department African Development Bank Email: HYPERLINK mailto:g.wanneburg@afdb.org g.wanneburg@afdb.org Pan-African Parliament Ntsiuoa Sekete Senior Communications and Media Officer Pan-African Parliament Email: HYPERLINK mailto:ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  12

 12 : COP26_UK321
The deletion of a single word in the latest draft of the climate deal being negotiated at the COP26 climate conference signals a surprisingly ambitious move to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. The previous draft stated that countries recognize that limiting global warming “to 1.5’b0C by 2100 requires rapid, deep and sustained reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions.” The new version omits “2100.” COP26 President Alok Sharma has made “keeping 1.5 alive” his mantra for the outcome of the Glasgow talks. Felix Schenuit, a visiting fellow with the Berlin-based research institute SWP Europe, said the tweak in the text is significant. It closes a backdoor that would have allowed the world to heat beyond 1.5’b0C in the next few decades, before dropping back to that level by 2100 by sucking up carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. “Politically, the new version is more ambitious wording,” he said. Avoiding an overshoot “requires incredibly rapid emissions reduction,” said Zeke Hausfather, a scientist with Berkeley Earth. However, that’s “not consistent with the level of commitments we’ve seen from countries” at COP26 , he added. If countries sign off on the new language, it could mean further COP meetings would be about turning that “recognition” into deliverable climate pledges. Both drafts say that meeting the 1.5’b0C goal would require “reducing global carbon dioxide emissions by 45% by 2030 relative to the 2010 level and to net zero around mid-century.” The latest version goes one step further, adding that countries also recognize the need for “deep reductions in non-carbon dioxide greenhouse gases.” If the language makes it into the final communique, it would mark the first time that countries meeting at a COP sign off on the 1.5’b0C target in line with the 2018 UN report, and it will send the strongest signal yet that they take the goal seriously, said Schenuit. The Group of 20 communique, agreed just before COP26 , mentions 1.5’b0C, but it doesn’t specify how quickly emissions need to be cut to ensure that it’s achieved. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  13

 13 : COP26_UK299
THE COP26 climate summit is due to end today, with negotiators scrambling to salvage a significant deal on reducing global carbon emissions. Cop26 president Alok Sharma yesterday warned “time is running out” in Glasgow for the 180 countries at the summit to agree to a deal. While the summit will officially end today, Boris Johnson indicated negotiations could stretch into the weekend as happened in previous years. China and the US, the globe’s two largest CO2 emitters, on Wednesday agreed to team up to phase out fossil fuels in an unexpected deal. Pundits have said the deal provides hope that China could come to the table and agree to a deal to strengthen commitments made in the 2015 Paris Climate Accord. Sharma said proposals over reducing fossil fuel subsidies and accelerating reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are still crucial stumbling blocks. “Whilst we have made progress we are not there yet on the most critical issues. There is still a lot more work to be done - time is running out,” he said. “As I speak my ministerial facilitators and negotiators are rolling up their sleeves and working hard to find solutions to some of the most intractable issues.” The draft text of the Cop26 deal notes “with serious concern” that existing global agreements are insufficient to keep global warming to 1.5 degrees. The draft, which sets out what negotiators hope will be the outcome of Cop26 , asks countries to “revisit and strengthen the 2030 targets in their nationally determined contributions, as necessary to align with the Paris Agreement temperature goal by the end of 2022”. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  14

 14 : COP21_UK92
December 1, 2015 As the United Nations Conference on Climate Change ( COP21 ) moves from the opening speeches to the detailed negotiations phase, Ricardo Energy & Environment will host a side event, Turning plans into achievement: the art of INDC implementation, from 15:15 - 16:45 on Wednesday 2 December, at the OECD Pavilion, Hall 3 (lot 7 - Blue Zone) The event will focus on what we see as the five essential but intrinsically interlinked pillars of Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDC) implementation, informed by Ricardo Energy & Environment’s experience of supporting national climate policies and helping more than 15 countries develop their INDCs. These pillars are: political will and effective governance; long-term mitigation strategies; integrated adaptation planning; climate finance frameworks; measurement, reporting and verification (MRV) systems. The event will kick-off with a presentation from Ricardo Energy & Environment which sets out these five pillars of INDC implementation, followed by speakers from the governments of developing countries, who will describe how they have approached the different pillars in their INDC development and plans for putting them into action. After the presentations will be a panel discussion, with the developing country governments joined by development partners who have been supporting INDC development. “As COP21 moves beyond the stage of the opening speeches, our event will focus on actions and implementation, and helping to ensure that plans are turned into tangible, measureable and verifiable achievements,” commented Ricardo Energy & Environment’s international director, Chris Dodwell, who is leading the company’s presence at the Paris COP21 . “Ricardo Energy & Environment’s climate change team has supported policy makers in more than 15 of these countries by helping them to identify cost-effective emission reduction opportunities and quantify the greenhouse gas emissions which would be avoided. We look forward to working with many more governments following COP21 , building on the momentum generated at the Paris conference in order to help them turn their INDC plans into action - and achievement.” For further information about this event and other Ricardo Energy & Environment activities at COP21 visit HYPERLINK HYPERLINK COP21 /
  15

 15 : COP25_UK84
Children and young people must be at the heart of dealing with the climate crisis, the UN and campaigners have said as HYPERLINK climate talks in Madrid HYPERLINK little concrete progress Young people, including HYPERLINK Greta Thunberg , played a leading role in protests at COP25 over the weekend, and on Monday appeared at the conference to put pressure on negotiators to come up with a plan for reducing greenhouse gases and tackling the impacts of climate breakdown. Penelope Lea, a 15-year old from Norway, was the first climate activist chosen to be a Unicef ambassador. She said: “We need to keep giving the decisionmakers the power to make the changes we need to see. People have a right to knowledge, and an obligation to get knowledge. Some say we have to wait for people to get ready for change. But we need to make people ready. These are some of the things the youth movement is trying to do, and have to do to ensure progress at COP25 .” Michelle Bachelet, the UN high commissioner for human rights, applauded the young activists. “I understand the despair and rage that so many young people and older ones too are feeling. All of us know the facts and so far there has been far too little real action. Children and young people have a right to participate. We need to implement the principle of intergenerational equity that the Paris agreement sets out.” Mary Robinson, a former president of Ireland, said:
“The children have called out the adult world, called us out very effectively, as this is a grave injustice. When I was growing up I did not have that shadow [of climate breakdown]. It’s not fair that we have made children have that fear.” Unicef warned that climate breakdown would reverse the gains made in recent years in protecting children and enshrining their rights in law. More than 500 million children live in areas judged to be at extremely high risk of floods, due to cyclones, hurricanes, storms and rising sea levels. In the Caribbean alone, the number of children displaced by extreme weather events has risen sixfold in five years, with more than 760,000 children displaced between 2014 and 2018. More than 160 million children are living in areas with high levels of drought, with severe impacts on their development and exposure to disease. That number is expected to rise dramatically, so that on current trends as many as one in four children around the world will live in areas of extreme water stress, according to the UN. Diseases, including mosquito-borne illnesses such as malaria and dengue fever, are forecast to spread to new areas as a result of global heating. Children under five are likely to be most at risk. Air pollution, which is made worse by coal-burning power stations, fossil fuels burned for transport and biomass burning in homes without clean energy sources, also HYPERLINK hurts children disproportionately. Breathing toxic air can stunt children’s lungs permanently, and has a long-term impact on their health, brain function and development. Toxic air contributes to the deaths of about 600,000 deaths of children under five every year, from pneumonia and other respiratory problems. But the measures needed to tackle the climate crisis - replacing fossil fuels with renewable energy, creating green spaces and planting trees - would also help to clean up dirty air. Gautam Narasimhan, a senior adviser on climate change, energy and environment at Unicef, said: “From hurricanes to droughts to floods to wildfires, the consequences of the climate crisis are all around us, affecting children the most and threatening their health, education, protection and very survival. Children are essential actors in responding to the climate crisis. We owe it to them to put all our efforts behind solutions we know can make a difference.”
  16

 16 : COP22_UK131
SABIC bolstered Saudi Arabia’s participation in Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week (ADSW) by providing the delegation with information about several up-and-running initiatives that are helping to promote the Kingdom’s reputation as a regional leader in responsible and sustainable development. “Saudi Arabia is quickly emerging as a regional leader in sustainability,” said Yousef Al-Benyan, SABIC Vice Chairman and CEO, who is leading the company’s delegation. “At SABIC, we are proud that some of our most important initiatives have helped progress on this journey, including the Home of InnovationTM, which is promoting sustainable downstream development, and the world’s largest CO2 utilization plant.” “Examples such as these not only prove that Saudi Arabia places a great importance on sustainable development, but also that we have been working hard for many years to put practical solutions in place. This is ‘Chemistry that MattersTM’ to the long-term health of our society.” The SABIC delegation is attending Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week in Masdar City on “Global Action Day”, January 16, and the “World Future Energy Summit” from January 17 to 19. ADSW is a global platform to address the interconnected challenges that affect the widespread acceleration and adoption of sustainable development and clean energy. The Saudi delegation is building on the Gulf Cooperation Council’s highly successful participation in the United Nations’ Conference of Parties ( COP22 ), held in Morocco in November. Saudi Arabia is a “country of focus” for the event because of its emerging regional sustainability leadership role as highlighted in the Saudi Vision 2030 and its advances in renewable energy. On January 17, Saudi delegates will highlight the country’s major initiatives during two panel discussions. Fahad Al-Sherehy, Leader, SABIC T&I, will represent the company during the panel entitled “Transforming the Energy Sector in Saudi Arabia to Enable Vision 2030.” Sustainable SABIC initiatives showcased at the event include the Home of InnovationTM, a project to foster downstream development through collaboration and innovation. The facility includes a demonstration house, designed to achieve net-zero energy in the demanding climatic conditions of Saudi Arabia. SABIC achieved this efficiency by integrating innovative solutions in collaboration with industry-leading partners. The home has over 200 advanced systems, materials, and products, including many that reduce energy and water use. If all homes in Saudi Arabia were as efficient as the Demonstration House it would reduce CO2 emissions by the equivalent of six coal-fired power plants. SABIC has also built the world’s largest CO2 capture and utilization plant at its manufacturing affiliate United in Jubail. The plant is designed to capture up to 500,000 tons of CO2 from the production of ethylene glycol annually, before purifying and distributing it to a network of affiliates to produce valuable products such as fertilizers. The project reduces emissions while increasing efficiency and lowering costs. Featuring prominently at the conference are SABIC’s qualified sustainability solutions, which create less CO2 emissions than traditional materials during production or save more in other lifecycle phases. They include a wide range of solutions for use in transportation, construction, medical devices, electrical and electronics, clean energy, packaging, and agri-nutrients. These solutions pass suitability benefits to customers by enabling the creation of productions that are lighter, stronger, thinner, more durable, better insulated, or more easily manufactured. Last year, SABIC’s manufacturing operations utilized 3.3 million tons of CO2. The company is on target to meet ambitious targets to reduce green-house gas, energy, and water intensities by 25 percent, and material loss intensity by 50 percent by 2025-from levels in 2010. Al-Benyan said:
“Sustainability is helping SABIC to emerge as a global leader in the petrochemicals industry. Embedding sustainable practices in our global operations has resulted in many benefits such as energy savings, improved resource efficiency, technological innovation and cost savings.” (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  17

 17 : COP23_UK82
At least 15 countries have joined an alliance against coal use at the ongoing United Nationsclimate change negotiations taking place in Bonn, Germany. Called the Powering Past Coal, the alliance was started by the UK, Canada, and the Marshall Islands. International climate lead at Christian Aid lead, Mohamed Adow,told Reuters that the alliance is a “rebuke to President Trumpfrom the UK and Canada, two of America’s closest allies, that his obsession for dirty energy will not spread”. Read more UN chief says time running out to prevent catastrophic climate change Current members also include Denmark, Finland, Italy, France, the Netherlands, Portugal, Belgium, Switzerland, New Zealand, Ethiopia, Mexico but the goal is to sign up at least 50 countries by the 2018 UN climate summit. Major coal users like China, the US, Russia, and Germany have not joined. ThoughChina has put forward an ambitious plan for solar energy,as has India. The alliance appears to be a thinly veiled critical response to the current administration of Mr Trump. Climate change might be worse than thought after scientists find major mistake in water temperature readings The announcement comes on the heels of an event the official US delegation - half the size of what it has been in the two previous Obama administrations - held on Monday. Industry representatives from coal, oil/gas, and nuclear power companies like Peabody Energy, nuclear engineering firm NuScale Power, and Tellurian, a liquefied natural gas exporter, were prominently featured during the event. The presentation was interrupted for nearly 10 minutes by youth activists chanting and singing. Activists are a common presence at the UN meeting every year, but this time their ire was in full force opposing the US’s starkly different message from the rest of the world, several people attending the meeting told The Independent . During the panel Trump international energy issues adviser George D Banks said it was “controversial only if we chose to bury our heads in the sand”. “Without question, fossil fuels will continue to be used, and we would argue that it’s in the global interest to make sure when fossil fuels are used that they be as clean and efficient as possible,” Mr Banks said. An unofficial US delegation including California Governor Jerry Brown, former Vice President Al Gore, former New York City mayor and UN special envoy on cities and climate change Michael Bloomberg, as well several American mayors and CEOs have been a presence at the meeting as well. They aim to show that sub-national governments and the private sector in the US are committed to meeting the goals outlined in the Paris Agreement under the previous Obama administration. The purpose of the meeting in Bonn is to hash out details of how to implement the accord, signed by nearly 200 countries in December 2015 in an effort to curb carbon emissions and contain global warming to 2C. Read more Macron vows to reverse Donald Trump’s cuts to climate change funding Al Gore says voting Trump out in 2020 could save Paris Agreement Trump is not invited to our next climate change summit, says France As part of the agreement, countries have submitted action plans to the UN climate change body outlining planned reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, which often involve weaning their economies off coal use. In June, Mr Trump announced the US would begin withdrawal procedures from the deal and if uninterrupted the US would be out by 4 November 2020. After previous holdouts Nicaragua and Syria announced they would be joining the accord in recent weeks, the US is the sole country to be in the withdrawal process.
  18

 18 : COP26_UK60
The Council today approved conclusions on ‘EU climate diplomacy: accelerating the implementation of Glasgow outcomes’, which stress the key importance of climate diplomacy and of EU outreach to third countries to accelerate the implementation of the COP26 outcomes in 2022. The conclusions set out that the EU and its member states, in a joint Team Europe approach, will engage with partners around the world to address the challenges linked to such implementation, and will actively work on the various COP26 sectoral initiatives and calls. In its conclusions the Council recognises that the direct and indirect effects of climate change, biodiversity loss and environmental degradation represent risks to the realisation of human rights, human and state security, undermining global peace and stability and often accelerating or deepening existing vulnerabilities and instability. In this light, the Council welcomes the increased focus by the UN on the climate, peace and security nexus, but also reiterates the need for human rights to be integrated systematically into climate action and energy diplomacy. The Council also stresses that the lack of at-scale finance for resilient and just energy transitions in middle and low-income countries remains a barrier for green and sustainable development. Therefore, the EU will continue to provide a sustainable, green and positive offer to partners for the development of trusted climate resilient energy, transport and digital infrastructure. At the same time, the EU calls on other developed countries to meet the collective commitment to mobilise $ 100 billion per year in 2022, and on multilateral development banks and international finance institutions to play a catalytic role in mobilising the private sector and shifting the global financial flows towards sustainable and green investments. Council conclusions on EU climate diplomacy: accelerating the implementation of Glasgow outcomes, 21 February 2022 Climate goals and the EU’s external policy (background information) Visit the meeting page Press contacts Maria Daniela Lenzu Press officer +32 2 281 21 46 +32 470 88 04 02 [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk Classification Language:
~ENGLISH
  19

 19 : COP23_UK222
The country’s largest customer-facing organisation, IndianOil Corporation (IndianOil), has adopted 2018 as the ‘Year of Trust.’ From Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) to daily price revision of petrol & diesel, to the
decision to leapfrog BS-VI fuels supply to Delhi by April 1, 2018, two years before its actual implementation date, are a few instances where policy-makers trusted the delivery potential of IndianOil. ‘The observanceof 2018 as the
’Year of Trust’ is a unique opportunity to sustain the Company’s trust among its customers and stakeholders by enhancing our capabilities and our integrity, as individuals and as an organisation,’ said IndianOil Chairman, Sanjiv Singh while unveiling the corporate theme for the year 2018. ‘Backed by our inherent strengths as a team and as an organisation, it would be a great project to make TRUST an enduring value across our supply chain,’ he added. Every second Indian is served by IndianOil employees, channel partners and their team members through more than 47,000 customer touch points. ‘Our core values inspire us to give our best. Among these, TRUST is the keystone and the active DNA of our organisational culture,’ said Mr. Sanjiv Singh. The decision follows the tradition started by the organisation in the year 2016 of adopting calendar year-based on IndianOil’s corporate values- Care, Innovation, Passion and Trust - when the organisation completed 10 years of formalising the corporate Core Values. Year 2016 was the ‘Year of Core Values’, while the year 2017 was observed as the ‘Year of Innovation and Technology.’ Starting from refineriesand pipeline networks to bulk storage terminals and fuel stations, adoption of smart technologies,e-portals for customer convenience and efficient use of SAP have resulted in greater efficiency. Now, a full-fledged CRM (customer relationship management) solution is being implemented to engage more closely with customers. IndianOil during 2017 also selected 11 innovative research proposals for support with its start-up fund. The resolution to adopt 2018 as ‘Year of Trust’ comes at a particularly important moment as India joins countries like France and China to stand by the accord to meet the challenge for a low-carbon sustainable future in the COP-23 Bonn Summit held in November 2017. For India, moving in consonance with the commitment would mean an increased share of Natural Gas and Renewables in the future energy mix. Being a market leader IndianOil will be once again leading this national agenda in the coming years. Contact: Kalikrishna M Tel: 011-26260142 Email: HYPERLINK iocl.cocc@indianoil.in [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  20

 20 : COP23_UK45
The IAEA participated in a UN Oceans side-event at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) COP23 in Bonn on ocean and climate entitled ‘A Resilient Ocean for Future Generations’. The objective of the 11 November side-event was to present actions that countries are taking, with the support of the UN system, to address climate-related multi-stressors on the ocean through improved scientific capacity, the development of CO2 mitigation strategies and new innovative adaptation approaches. Peter Thomson, the first UN Special Envoy for the Oceans, appointed in September 2017, provided remarks and stressed that ‘we have to talk of ocean change like we talk of climate change’. During the session, Mr Deon Terblanche from the World Meteorological Organization presented its latest Greenhouse Gas Bulletin, according to which carbon dioxide (CO2) concentrations in the atmosphere have increased by 145% as compared to pre-industrial (before 1750) levels. This is causing changes in the world we live in with knock-on effects on the oceans and marine ecosystems. About a quarter of the CO2 emitted through human activities is taken up by the ocean. This is causing a change in the ocean’s chemistry, a process known as ocean acidification. Since the beginning of the industrial revolution, ocean acidity has increased by 26% and the current rate of acidification is over 10 times faster than any time in the last 55 million years. Peter Swarzenski, from the IAEA Environment Laboratories stressed that ‘we all have an important role to play in ocean action. IAEA research provides insight into ocean processes and can be used by Member States to make informed decisions and take action’. He added that ‘it is not too late. We can avoid irreversible consequences for the oceans and the communities that depend on them’. Recent research, including that done by the IAEA, shows that ocean acidification effects on fisheries, aquaculture and coral reefs are expanding, both in terms of geographical location and intensity. Some effects are direct such as on species’ physiology: growth, reproduction and calcification, while others may be indirect: impact on food sources, habitat degradation, changes in the food chain structure, for example. Nuclear and isotopic techniques are powerful tools to study ocean acidification and have contributed widely to investigating past changes in ocean acidity and potential impacts on marine organisms. Researchers at the IAEA Environment Laboratories use calcium-45 to examine the growth rates in calcifying organisms such as corals, mussels and other molluscs, whose skeletons and shells are composed of calcium carbonate. Tracers are also used to determine how ocean acidification is affecting the physiology of marine organisms, as well as the impact of multiple combined stressors, such as ocean acidification and increases in temperature and contaminants. The IAEA laboratories in Monaco also host the Ocean Acidification International Coordination Centre (OA-ICC), which works with many international partners to advance ocean acidification monitoring, research and capacity-building around the world. Vladimir Ryabinin, Executive Secretary of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of UNESCO highlighted how IOC-UNESCO and the IAEA OA-ICC are collaborating closely to support the Global Ocean Acidification Observing Network (GOA-ON), a global platform launched in 2012, which brings together researchers working on ocean acidification monitoring. ‘Oxygen in the ocean decreases, sea water is acidifying, and sea level is rising. We know this, and can make projections for the future, because of systematic ocean observations and science,’ argued Mr Ryabinin. Ultimately, these efforts contribute to equip countries to respond to Sustainable Development Goal 14 dealing with Ocean change, and it’s Target 3, specifically addressing ocean acidification. The side-event was coordinated by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of UNESCO and the IAEA with representatives from UN Environment, FAO, IMO, the UNESCO World Heritage Centre and the WMO. Media Contact: Tel: [43-1] 2600-21273 Fax: [43-1] 2600-29610 [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  21

 21 : COP24_UK66
October 19, 2018 HYPERLINK The Minister for Climate Change is travelling to Poland to take part in preliminary talks around deciding the rules for meeting Paris Agreement obligations to reduce global greenhouse gases. “Talks in Krakow over the coming days will focus on key issues which will need to be addressed in the Conference of Parties summit ( COP24 ) in December,” James Shaw said. “It will also be an opportunity for countries to compare notes on our various domestic emissions reduction work programmes.”Achieving the Paris Agreement in 2015 was a turning point in the commitment to address climate change. When we meet for COP24 in Katowice in December we will be making decisions that put the rules in place to help us meet the Paris commitment. “There are complex issues and different views to work through about what those rules look like and how they work. So laying preliminary groundwork in Krakow over the next few days should help give us a focus and clear aims for COP24 .”I am also pleased to be attending these pre-COP talks to support New Zealand’s leadership in the process,” Mr Shaw said. “Our Climate Change Ambassador, Jo Tyndall, will be helping run the Krakow conference as Co-Chair of the working group that was established to develop the guidelines, procedures and processes which will make up the
‘rulebook’ for the Paris Agreement.”
  22

 22 : COP21_UK188
Small island countries facing flooding from rising sea levels are closing in on a deal with wealthy countries that would see loss and damage support measures included in the HYPERLINK global climate accord to be finalised in Paris this week . Developed countries have been resisting such a move for more than a year, fearing it could make them liable for billions of dollars in compensation. But Miguel Arias Ca’f1ete, EU climate commissioner, told the Financial Times there was now a growing understanding that loss and damage provisions would be included in the Paris agreement, as long as they did not expose wealthy countries to new claims for compensation. A draft text of the agreement was finalised on Saturday. Mr Arias Ca’f1ete said a meeting that Barack Obama, US president, had with five island leaders last week at the Paris talks, known as COP21 , had helped smooth the way for a compromise on what has become one of the more divisive issues in UN climate talks in recent years. I am very glad that the US is showing flexibility because from the very beginning of this process we have supported this concept of course with adequate language [on compensation], he said. But he added: There is one thing that we do not accept and will not accept in this agreement and that is the notion that there should be liability and compensation for loss and damage. That is a line that we can’ t cross. This is not a US-centric position but it is a position that is important for us. It is still unclear what type of loss and damage measures might make it into the final accord that delegates from nearly 200 nations are due to seal this Friday. The draft text of the agreement called for a climate change displacement co-ordination facility to be set up to relocate people affected by the fierce storms and other extreme weather scientists say is more likely as global temperatures rise. The text also says plans to address irreversible and permanent damage resulting from human-induced climate change should be completed within four years. Island country delegates said they were very pleased wealthy countries were no long rejecting outright the notion that their failure to combat global warming meant extra support was needed for small, poor countries facing a threat to their existence. But James Fletcher of St Lucia, the small Caribbean island state, said the question of how to frame loss and damage support in the Paris agreement was still a stumbling block. We believe we already have avenues for liability and compensation under international law and international agreements, he said. The discussion going on right now is a discussion among lawyers. How do we end up with a text that allays the fears of the US, the EU and other countries that we are creating a mechanism for liability and compensation. And how do you address our concern that we do not give up any rights that we presently already have under international agreements. UN climate talks have been held for more than 20 years without managing to produce the deep cuts in global emissions from burning fossil fuels that scientists say are required to avert dangerous levels of global warming. HYPERLINK Listen to the FT News podcast
  23

 23 : COP26_UK59
HYPERLINK None of the pledges on climate action made at Cop26 will matter unless countries deliver on them, HYPERLINK Alok Sharma has warned. Speaking at a HYPERLINK Chatham House event in London on Monday, the Cop26 HYPERLINK President said countries had come together, despite an otherwise fractured world, at UN climate talks in HYPERLINK Glasgow last year to secure agreement on raising their climate ambition and phasing down coal. But Mr Sharma, who continues in his role as president until he hands over to Egypt for the Cop27 talks in November this year, acknowledged that the Glasgow summit’s success was “fragile”. He said he was focused on pushing for delivery on raising efforts to cut emissions, helping countries adapt to climate extremes, delivering on finance for poorer nations and pushing for further action in sectors such as coal. Through the Glasgow Climate Pact signed in November, 197 countries agreed to strengthen their emissions-cutting targets for 2030 by the end of next year in an attempt to limit global warming climbing above 1.5C. Mr Sharma told the Chatham House audience that
“collective self-interest” had driven agreement, with leaders recognising that the science of climate change was clear, that inaction or delayed action would create immense risks and costs and there was an economic dividend to tackling the crisis. There is no doubt that the commitments we secured at Cop26 were historic Alok Sharma, Cop26
“Net zero is one of the clearest economic trends there has ever been,” he said, adding that “clean is competitive” and the global race to supply technologies and solutions for the net zero world was on. “The train is pulling out of the station and countries and companies that want to remain competitive need to leap on now,” he urged. He said the G20 group of leading nations, which are responsible for 80% of global emissions, were his personal priority as part of efforts to urge all countries to revisit and strengthen their plans to cut emissions by 2030. And he said: “There is no doubt that the commitments we secured at Cop26 were historic.”Yet at the moment they are just words on a page.
“We will have fractured the trust built between nations.”And 1.5C will slip from our grasp. “So my absolute focus for the UK Presidency year is delivery.” In a question and answer session after his speech, Mr Sharma disagreed with suggestions the talks in Glasgow had been a failure, pointing to how almost 200 countries had agreed to the pact despite conflicts around the world. He said the conference had succeeded on delivering in areas that many people had not thought could be achieved, including getting all countries to agree to come back by the end of 2022 with enhanced emissions cuts. But he said: “None of that will matter unless these commitments are turned into action. In reference to comments he made in the aftermath of the talks that 1.5C was alive, but its pulse was weak, he added:”It was a fragile win. “That heartbeat of 1.5C will only be strengthened if people continue, if countries continue to deliver.” Read More HYPERLINK Cop26 President Alok Sharma to urge countries to act on Glasgow agreement HYPERLINK Minister quits Government with blast over ‘schoolboy’ handling of Covid fraud HYPERLINK Covid testing for travellers has ‘outlived its usefulness’ as measures scrapped Classification Language:
~ENGLISH
  24

 24 : COP25_UK26
Engie Energ&a Chile~is finally moving forward with its first wind farm in Chile, which was stalled for months because of an arbitration claim. The 150MW Calama wind project, located in the Antofagasta region, was announced on 4 October (2019) as part of Engie’s plan to build a 1GW portfolio of wind and solar assets in Chile. Global Energy Service (GES) was awarded the EPC contract to build the Calama facility, which will be fitted with 30 wind turbines. However, construction was halted after Asachi - the indigenous association of Chiu Chiu, a locality in Antofagasta - filed an arbitration claim against the project last September, claiming it was located on a site of vital importance for agriculture. Asachi reached an agreement with Engie and withdrew its claim fourth months later. The Calama wind farm is Engie’s second project between Calama and San Pedro de Atacama, Antofagasta. The other is the 97MW Capricornio solar project, which is also being built by GES. Construction on both projects initially began in the fall, and they are expected to come online mid-2021. The two projects, along with the 120MW (DC) Tamaya solar park in Tocopilla, Antofagasta, represent a total investment of $300 million. Construction on Tamaya is slated to start in Q1 2020. IDB Invest signed a letter of intent with Engie for a proposed $125 million loan for renewable energy projects in the Chile, in December (2019) during the United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP 25 ) in Madrid. Engie Energ&a Chile owns two other solar parks in Chile, having acquired them from another affiliate of Engie, Solairedirect, last April. The projects are the 54MW Los Loros and 1.3MW Andacollo projects, in the province of Copiap&, in the Atacama desert. Engie’s renewable energy investment plan in Chile was given added impetus when the company reached an agreement with the Chilean government to shut down its Tocopilla coal-fired plant. Enel and AES Corp. made similar commitments. (A version of this story first appeared on~Power, Finance & Risk)
  25

 25 : COP21_UK305
India, one of the world’ s largest coal users, will cut back on its investments in the fuel if the new climate deal due to be struck next week in Paris delivers more money to help it shift to cleaner sources of energy such as solar power, a senior negotiator said on Wednesday. We’ ve made it very clear that solar and wind is our first commitment, said Ajay Mathur, director general of India’ s Bureau of Energy Efficiency, at the Paris talks, HYPERLINK known as COP21 . Hydro, nuclear, all of these non-carbon sources are what we will develop to the largest extent we can, he told reporters. But it has to be affordable. He was speaking as campaigners from a fossil fuel divestment movement said the number of investors shunning coal, gas and oil has surged ahead of the Paris conference. At least 500 institutions with more than $3.4tn in assets have pledged to avoid or cut holdings in fossil fuels, said activist groups 350.org and Divest-Invest. That represents a big jump from a year ago, when 181 institutions representing about $50bn in assets were committed to such a step, they said. A spate of city councils, banks, pension funds, churches and universities have pledged to cut back or shun coal investments this year. One of the most striking commitments came last month when Allianz, the German insurance group, said it would pull more than € 4bn ($4.3bn) from companies with coal businesses. Earlier this year, the Norwegian parliament decided the country’ s $857bn sovereign wealth fund should withdraw from any company in which coal represents more than 30 per cent of the business. Both moves came in the wake of a divestment campaign that began on US college campuses more than two years ago in an effort to make fossil fuel holdings as unpopular as tobacco or investments in apartheid-era South Africa. Churches and wealthy individuals with an interest in climate change then joined, including the heirs to the Rockefeller oil fortune. The momentum in this divestment campaign is accelerating day by day, Stephen Heintz, president of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, told journalists at the Paris climate conference on Wednesday. There is a moral imperative to save the planet and to do so we need to end the fossil fuel era now, he said. Benjamin Sporton, chief executive of the World Coal Association said that although the campaigners’ multi-trillion dollar headline figures seemed large, a lot of the institutions and funds with these assets did not currently have coal holdings and the amount of money actually being pulled out of coal was relatively small. While there are companies and funds saying they want to get out of coal, there are plenty of others that are remaining invested, he told the Financial Times. This was especially the case in South East Asia and in large countries such as India, where governments are planning to continue using coal for electricity. Mr Sporton said he hoped the Paris climate talks would help drive the use of technology that allows coal to be burnt more efficiently and cleanly, a chief aim of his members. Coal companies have borne the brunt of the divestment push because coal produces more carbon emissions when burnt than other fossil fuels such as natural gas. But it remains an abundant and cheap source of energy in many developing countries and is the biggest source of electricity globally, accounting for a 41 per cent share of the world’ s electricity, according to the International Energy Agency. That global share is expected to fall to just over 30 per cent by 2030, the agency says, as fast-growing renewable energy sources supply a larger proportion of electricity. However, divestments have not been the only feature of this year’ s assault on coal. Banks have made public their refusal to fund some coal investments. In Australia, where India’ s Adani group wants to build the country’ s largest proposed coal project, Standard Chartered has said it will no longer be involved in the increasingly controversial development. Banks including Deutsche and HSBC had already steered clear. And multilateral commitments to the coal industry have been reined in. Last month member states of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development agreed limits on export subsidies for coal-fired power stations, following unilateral initiatives to curb export credits by countries including the UK and US. But divestment has its critics. Anne Stausboll, chief executive of Calpers, the California state pension system, has called lobbying for divestment flawed and said it is more constructive to engage with companies where the fund invests. However California approved a divestment law in October. Calpers will evaluate divestment as outlined in the bill , the fund said. As of June it had $57m invested in 27 thermal coal companies. Listen to the HYPERLINK World Weekly podcast
  26

 26 : COP21_UK223
Click here for full-size image epa05048933 US President Barack Obama smiles as she attends the opening ceremony of the COP21 , United Nations Climate Change Conference , in Le Bourget, outside Paris, France, 30 November 2015. The 21st Conference of the Parties ( COP21 ) is held in Paris from 30 November to 11 December aimed at reaching an international agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions and curtail climate change. EPA/THIBAULT CAMUS / POOL MAXXPPP OUT IMAGE ID: EPALIVE926678 HYPERLINK Subject to copyright. Click here for information regarding redistribution of this image.
  27

 27 : COP22_UK100
THE United Nations came to Cardiff last week when students from across Wales took part in a mock United Nations conference on climate change. Students from across the country joined the debate and represented countries such as Brazil, USA, the Philippines and Saudi Arabia. The conference, run annually by Size of Wales in partnership with Welsh Centre for International Affairs, gives young people an opportunity to discuss the issue of climate change from the perspective of world leaders. Topics discussed ranged from clean energy, protecting rainforests, disaster management and how to finance these. “The conference encourages young people to be more engaged with climate change and political issues” said Janie Pridham, education officer at Size of Wales. “It also helps them develop understanding of other nations and cultures and to consider the responsibility of Wales, both locally and globally.” She added: “The standard of debate was extremely high this year.”It was wonderful to see the students take on their roles in such a realistic way. “Some delegates were quoting Trump and there was even a smear campaign between countries.” The aim of the day was for delegates to agree an international resolution on the issue of climate change, similar to the UN climate change COP22 talks that were held in Marrakesh in November. This year Sophie Howe, the Future Generations Commissioner, joined the event, acting as the secretary general and presiding over teams of three pupils representing 20 countries and organisations. “The bright, engaged young people I met today not only understand the critical point we have reached in terms of tackling climate change but understand that it is they who will be experiencing the positive or negative impact of our actions today.” the Commissioner said. “If we continue to give them a voice and an opportunity to influence, it gives me hope that there is a better future for everyone in Wales and that we will be a nation that makes a positive contribution to global wellbeing.” Size of Wales is a unique initiative which is helping to protect an area of rainforest twice the size of Wales as part of a national response to climate change. MOCKCOP is a highlight in its education programme, which also offers free workshops and assemblies to schools across Wales. The event was sponsored by Jenny Rathbone AM.
  28

 28 : COP22_UK87
One of the most significant landmarks for the renewable energy industry in the past year was the Paris conference on climate change. A year on, and the outlook on paper at least seems less optimistic. The COP22 conference in Marrakech on November 7-18, was shrouded in uncertainty in light of recent political developments in the UK and the US. The energy industry waits with baited breath what will the future hold for a progressive, healthy energy mix across the globe? >It is hoped that COP22 can inspire and educate more investors to be more climate aware as they diversify their investment portfolios But while many discussions have focused on the future of the US s commitment to the Paris agreement, it needn t all be doom and gloom. In fact, many of the talks at the COP22 conference looked at how wealthier nations can support developing nations with financial aid in the adoption of renewable energy alternatives putting climate finance firmly on the global agenda. This is key. Raising awareness about the importance of stronger investment into climate change solutions will be paramount in the global fight against climate change. In 2014, the Australian government announced the delivery of AU$200m (£3117m) to the UN s Green Bank. Such a move sent a clear signal of the country s commitment to support a greener economy. Moves like this can help create a positive investment climate for those looking to invest in climate change solutions such as solar photovoltaics, onshore wind and commercial energy storage. Investors have the power to drive positive change by divesting from fossil fuels, and reinvesting into renewable energy sources. This doesn t just help to mitigate the negative effects of climate change, but can also present strong returns. Such investments are typically long term and inflation-linked. A vast amount of climate change solutions are infrastructure projects and often wrongly placed as part of the private equity industry. Finally, and most importantly, such investments are proven and credible. Wind and solar power, for example, have been around for at least 20 years, generating electricity to power thousands of local homes and communities. AU$200m In 2014, the Australian government announced the delivery of this amount to the UN’s Green Bank It is hoped that COP22 can inspire and educate more investors to be more climate aware as they diversify their investment portfolios. The climate-savvy investor of the future will realise the true potential of alternative energy sources to shape our future for the better, and make sure that the financial markets will cease to be dominated by the oligarchs of oil and fossil fuels. Such investors are also far more likely to be influenced by the investment decisions they make at home. For example, if they can see the savings made by having solar panels at home, they may be more incentivised to invest in energy storage at scale, for example. While investors can help the fight against climate change, they cannot do it alone. Now more than ever, strong leadership and collaboration is needed to keep the promise of Paris s COP21 alive. As one of the most competitive financial centres in the world, London is poised to become one of the leading capitals for climate finance but more must be done. Take the Montr’e9al Carbon Pledge. In 2014, this pledge a commitment from the UN s Principles for Responsible Investment to measure and disclose the carbon intensity of the whole investment portfolio of global members was launched after pressure from major pension funds and institutional investors such as the Rowntree Charitable Trust. It is evident, then, that the investment community has the power to effect change and even change policy. Looking ahead, COP22 s legacy may be dampened by recent political shifts in the West, but the renewable energy industry must find ways to clearly and confidently weather the policy uncertainty that is to come. The private sector, including the climate-savvy investors, can lead the charge in driving investment into renewable energy sources, while also enjoying the robust returns that come with them. The road ahead must be one of collaboration, with investors and policymakers working together to create a positive investment climate, which will in turn help to tackle the global issue of climate change. Juan Martin Alfonso is chief financial officer at Low Carbon
  29

 29 : COP25_UK336
TEACHERS fear pupils will empty classrooms in a mass walkout during the crunch UN climate summit. Thousands of pupils inspired by Swedish eco activist Greta Thunberg, 17, could go on strike as world leaders gather in Glasgow for COP26. An exodus is expected midway through the event on Friday, November 13 - after previous walkouts sparked by the teen figurehead’s Fridays for Future crusade. One source said: “We’ve been told there could be empty classrooms on the day.”I agree with the pupils and their right to protest but a lot of other teachers and parents don’t. And there are issues around knowing where your child is during school time.” Scottish Greens education spokesman Ross Greer MSP said: “I fully expect November 13 to be the biggest-ever school strike in Scotland and the UK.”Young people are watching their future being stolen, so it’s no surprise they’re rebelling and demanding action.” Ms Thunberg spoke at COP25 in Madrid, Spain, last year, claiming 500,000 turned up at her rally. Nicola Sturgeon and then-PM Theresa May clashed over climate strikes, with the First Minister backing pupils and Mrs May insisting they wasted valuable lesson time. COP26 will be attended by 200 world leaders, 90,000 delegates and potentially thousands of protestors. A Scottish Government spokeswoman hailed pupils for engaging with the issue but added: “Student absence is a matter for individual schools and local authorities.” HYPERLINK mailto:kevin.duguid@the-sun.co.uk kevin.duguid@the-sun.co.uk
  30

 30 : COP21_UK25
International shipping and aviation emissions have been excluded from the new draft climate agreement being negotiated at the United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP 21 ) in Le Bourget, Paris. During the five-day climate talks in Bonn, Germany, the sectors were revealed to have been included in the Paris agreement draft to be signed in December. However, environmental groups including Seas At Risk and Transport & Environment (T&E) earlier speculated about the draft agreement having excluded the aviation and shipping sectors from targeted CO2 emissions cuts. “Those parties calling for an ambitious agreement must insist that language on international transport be reinserted.” The environmental groups also claimed that previous calls for aviation and shipping CO2 reduction targets will be removed under the draft Paris deal. According to the International Maritime Organisation
(IMO), carbon emissions from international maritime shipping could increase by 250% in the period to 2050 if left unchecked. The International Chamber of Shipping (ICS), which represents the global shipping industry, recommended the UN IMO enforce further regulations to curb CO2 emissions across the global merchant fleet. ICS secretary general Peter Hinchliffe said: “Mandatory regulations already adopted by IMO will ensure that all ships built after 2025 will be at least 30% more efficient than ships operating today.”Combined with further technical and operational measures plus new technology, international shipping should be able to reduce its CO2 per tonne kilometre by 50% before 2050.” With the least developed countries likely to suffer the most from the consequences of climate change, IMF and World Bank expressed strong dissent against such levies.
  31

 31 : COP23_UK79
A POPULAR holiday destination for Britons could be gone by the end of the century as it continues to sink due to rising sea levels, as world leaders are called to act at the COP23 conference. Getty The Maldives is rapidly sinking and could be gone in the next 80 years The Pacific Islands contain some of the famous idyllic holiday destinations chosen by Britons for sun and luxury,~ With sea levels rising dramatically in the past few decades, the islands will suffer the most as they eventually become entirely submerged. Tuvalu could be uninhabitable by 2050, with some islands such as Kiribati being completely gone by 2100. The Pacific island nations have urged leaders around the world to act after the COP23 conference in Germany discussed climate change and implementing the 2015 Paris agreement on global warming. The COP23 The Maldives is a famous destination for honeymooners and families, and this is also at risk of completely disappearing. With the lowest elevation in the world and just an average height of four feet above sea level, this too could be gone in the next century. The Solomon Islands have also been affected, with five of them already having completely sunk. New Zealand has become the first nation to create a new visa category for people who live on the islands, and are a product of island displacement. Getty Pacific Islands has warned that many islands are sinking, threatening the homes of many Professor Tim Flannery, a climate change expert at La Trobe University, told news.com.au: “It’s very concerning times, particularly if you live in a small island nation.”Many of those nations are already making agreements to deal with the problem as it develops.” He explained further: “As sea water rises it starts to penetrate the freshwater on the land, that’s the most immediate threat for a lot of the island.”Beach and coastal erosion and flooding is another threat. With these two factors it’s entirely possible within the next 30 years some islands could be rendered uninhabitable.” Getty The Maldives is a popular destination for honeymooners, but may not be around in the next decade They aren’t the only tourist destinations that could disappear within 50 years.~ Rising sea levels are also occurring due to glaciers melting as the planet warms up. The famous Columbia Glacier in Alaska is at risk due to the speed in which it is melting. Related articles UK weather: 2017 could be one of top three HOTTEST years ever recorded Great Barrier Reef DYING: Corals among 62 natural wonders under threat Earth under THREAT: Humans must do THIS to save the planet
  32

 32 : COP24_UK104
A tax on the fossil fuel industry could be used to protect the world’s most vulnerable people from , according to a coalition of environmental groups. As global temperatures soar, devastating events like and floods are becoming more frequent and destructive, but many affected are those least responsible for these phenomena. For years debate has gone back and forth about how best to reimburse those hit by these disasters, but there is still a need for a pot of money that can be accessed rapidly to aid their recovery. In a new report released at a , a “climate damages tax” that could generate up to $300bn (£3237bn) eachyear is suggested as a possiblesolution. Based on the “polluter pays” principle, fossil fuel corporations would be taxed for every tonne of coal, oil and gas they extract from the ground. Read more Experts condemn US and Saudi Arabia for blocking key climate report This would make those spewing out climate-damaging emissions responsible for recovery costs until these dirty fuels are phased out altogether. “The Climate Damages Tax is a practical way to address the injustice at the heart of climate change - that the fossil fuel industry make hundreds of billions in profits whilst the true costs of their product are paid by the rest of society, particularly the poorest and most vulnerable,” said Julie-Anne Richards from the Climate Damages Tax Coalition. Sir David Attenborough at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Katowice: Climate change ‘our greatest threat’ Ralph Regenvanu, foreign minister for the island nation of Vanuatu, said his nation was
“on the front lines of climate change and yet we have done little to cause it”. He cited the cased of , which struck in 2015 and cost Vanuatu over 60 per cent of its GDP. Though they applied to the existing Green Climate Fund for compensation, the grants awarded have been insufficient, suggesting a need for new sources of money to support climate reparations. Read more Poland shows no signs of breaking its coal addiction despite toxic air Donald Trump blames Paris climate agreement for violence in France Bolsonaro risks turning Brazil into ‘climate rogues’ Finance - and specifically the amount of money given by richer nations to poorer ones to tackle climate change - is an important topic at this year’s meeting in Poland. However, the groups behind the report said discussion of the matter was progressing at a rate out of step with the urgency of climate change. In their report, the Climate Damages Tax Coalition lay out a system inwhich companies pay for every tonne of CO2 they emit, and this continues until fossil fuels are phased out entirely by 2050.
  33

 33 : COP21_UK350
Click here for full-size image epa05048467 Belgium’s Prime Minister Charles Michel (R) is welcomed by French President Francois Hollande (L) upon his arrival for the opening of the UN conference on climate change COP21 , at Le Bourget, outside Paris, 30 November 2015. The 21st Conference of the Parties ( COP21 ) is held in Paris from 30 November to 11 December aimed at reaching an international agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions and curtail climate change. EPA/LOIC VENANCE / POOL MAXPPP OUT IMAGE ID: EPALIVE926353 HYPERLINK Subject to copyright. Click here for information regarding redistribution of this image.
  34

 34 : COP23_UK171
One year after the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on climate change, the Bonn Conference, which opens on 6 November in Germany, will be an opportunity for nations around the world to show their ambition for climate action and their determination to keep their promises. “While Paris represented one of those moments where the best of humanity achieved an agreement so important to our collective futures, Bonn represents how we will move forward to fulfill its promise”, said the Executive Secretary of United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Patricia Espinosa, on the margins of a ministerial meeting in Fiji on 17 October 2017 to prepare for the Bonn Conference of the Convention’s States Parties. “We are running out of time to turn things around. To do so, we must significantly increase our efforts to reduce emissions and our carbon footprints,” she added. The Paris Agreement, which was adopted by the 196 Parties to the UNFCCC in December 2015 in the French capital after which it is named, calls on countries to combat climate change by limiting the rise of global temperature below 2 degrees Celsius and strive not to exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius. A year ago, the Marrakech Climate Conference concluded with the Marrakech Action Proclamation, for our climate and sustainable development, in which the UNFCCC States Parties affirmed their “commitment” to the “full implementation” of the Paris Agreement. Today, 169 Parties have ratified the Agreement. At the Bonn Conference, informally known as COP 23 , countries will seek to move forward in completing the rule book for operationalizing the Paris Agreement. The Conference, which runs until 17 November, is chaired by Fiji, an island State particularly affected by the impacts of climate change. “Never has our work been more necessary. We see this with respect to the extreme weather events affecting almost every continent throughout the world,” said Ms. Espinosa. COP 23 President and Fiji Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama agrees. “We can no longer ignore this crisis. Whether it is fires in California, Portugal and Spain. Flooding in Nigeria, India and Bangladesh. The dramatic Arctic melt. Ice breaking off the continent of Antarctica. The recent hurricanes that devastated the Caribbean and the southern United States [. . . ] It’s hard to find any part of the world that is unaffected by these events”, he said at the ministerial meeting in Fiji. Bonn Conference an opportunity to boost climate risk management efforts In an op-ed published in October 2017, Ms. Espinosa, alongside the Administrator of the UN Development Programme (UNDP), Achim Steiner, and the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Disaster Risk Reduction, Robert Glasser, said the Bonn Conference “provides an opportunity to not only accelerate emission reductions but also boost the serious work of ensuring that the management of climate risk is integrated into disaster risk management as a whole.” A week before the opening of the Bonn Conference, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) announced that the levels of carbon dioxide (C02) surged at
“record-breaking speed” to new highs in 2016. The Bonn Conference will feature a series of meetings and events, including the high-level segment, on 15 November and 16 November, attended by Heads of State and Government, Ministers, and UN Secretary-General Ant’f3nio Guterres. Mr. Guterres has invited leaders to consider championing six high-impact areas at a special Climate Summit in 2019. These areas are investment in clean technology, maturing carbon pricing, enabling the energy transition, risk mitigation and building resilience, augmenting the contribution of sub-national actors and business and mobilizing climate finance. “Increasing ambition is the only way to keep the global temperature rise well below 2 degrees Celsius this century, and as close to 1.5 degree as possible. By focusing on these sectors, we can substantially reduce the gap between where we are and where we need to be,” said UN Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed, at the pre-COP meeting in Fiji. Among the side events scheduled at COP 23 , several will be organized under the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action to show how cities, regions, private sector companies and investors are trying to implement the Paris Agreement in the areas of energy, water, agriculture, oceans and coastal areas, human settlements, transportation, industry, and forests. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  35

 35 : COP21_UK158
In weighing the energy options for mitigating climate change, nuclear energy should be considered on equal footing with other low-carbon energy sources for its broader potential for contributions to sustainable development, said IAEA Energy Economist Loreta Stankeviciute at the Paris climate conference on Thursday. ‘Nuclear energy compares favourably across many sustainability indicators,’ stated Stankeviciute, presenting at the COP21 side event entitled Why the Climate Needs Nuclear Energy, co-hosted by the IAEA and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA). Nuclear power has a low impact on human health and the environment, as compared to other sources of electricity, especially fossil fuels. Future nuclear technologies can further reduce the volume and radioactivity of high level radioactive waste. However, nuclear energy does require a significant amount of water for cooling, but higher efficiencies in advanced technologies can reduce these needs in the future, Stankeviciute added. ‘Nuclear energy also contributes to sustainable development in a societal context,’ said Stankeviciute. ‘It creates economic growth and new jobs. Skilled labour is necessary to design and operate nuclear power plants.’ The IAEA is currently working on a detailed report on the nexus between nuclear power and sustainable development. This echoes the statement by IAEA Deputy Director General Mikhail Chudakov earlier this week to consider nuclear energy as sustainable energy because it has low life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions and has the potential, with innovative technologies, to serve humanity and bolster development effectively for a very long time. ‘By addressing key Sustainable Development Goals, nuclear energy has potential macro-economic benefits,’ said David Shropshire, Head of the Planning and Economic Studies Section of the IAEA, at the side event. ‘The IAEA is looking at developing tools, training courses and expert and review missions to help Member States analyze these macro-economic benefits.’ A joint publication of the NEA and IAEA, Guidance Document for Measuring Employment Generated by the Nuclear Power Sector, will be published in early 2016. Taking place from 30 November to 11 December 2015 in Paris, France, the 21st Conference of Parties ( COP21 ) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) provides countries the opportunity to present their climate change strategies and reach a legally binding agreement on climate change. The IAEA has had an exhibit in the One UN Exhibit Area and will co-host this side event again on Why the Climate Needs Nuclear Energy on Friday, 11 December 2015, at 11:15-12:45 at the OECD Workspace, Blue Zone, Hall 3, Plot 7. For more information on how nuclear energy can address climate change, see the recently published IAEA report on Climate Change and Nuclear Power. Contact: International Atomic Energy Agency Vienna International Centre A-1400 Vienna, Austria Tel: (+431) 2600-0 [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  36

 36 : COP25_UK61
Mr Johnson needs a “big-hitter” to get the COP26 event back on track after he sacked the former energy minister Claire O’Neill as its president. But the former prime minister said no to the high-profile role, which would involve extensive visits to national governments and institutions such as the EU to get them on board. The COP26 president would then assume the role of chairman during the summit itself in November. Related articles Mr Cameron said: “It was an honour to be asked to do that job and I’m very grateful to have been asked.”But I think it’s best in these situations if you have a Government minister doing the job; you then have one line of command rather than, perhaps, two people doing the same thing. “There are a lot of things I have already agreed to do this year, not least the work I do for Alzheimer’s Research UK, so I thought it was important that I carried on with that work.” He continued: “But I wish the Government well, I wish this climate change conference well, because it’s absolutely vital.”I’m sure that there will be a Government minister, or someone, who will be able to do the job and do it very well. The Government has my backing as they go forward.” Another former Tory leader, Lord Hague, is also understood to have been sounded out by Downing Street but has also turned down the offer. READ MORE:Boris ‘doesn’t get’ climate crisis, says sacked environmental aide Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn has nominated his predecessor Ed Miliband for the climate summit job. Mr Corbyn’s officials spokesman said: “Ed Miliband is certainly someone who has a strong record and would be an entirely suitable person.”The issue is not exactly who should take on the role, but that it’s somebody with credibility. “The performance we have seen in the last day or two over this subject is just a reflection of the fact that Boris Johnson is not serious about the climate crisis.” Ms O’Neill’s dismissal was justified by Number 10, which said it had been decided the job was a “ministerial role”. She hit back at Mr Johnson earlier this week by questioning his green credentials and claiming he had privately admitted he “doesn’t really understand” climate change. In a personal attack on the Prime Minister, Ms O’Neill said: “My advice to anybody to whom Boris is making promises - whether it is voters, world leaders, ministers, employees or indeed to family members - is to get it in writing, get a lawyer to look at it and make sure the money is in the bank.” DON’T MISSBritons furious over shock new ban for petrol and diesel cars by 2035[SPOTLIGHT]Boris Johnson left red-faced as BBC reporter questions PM on axed ally[VIDEO]Brexit: EU teases teases new meat tax to fight climate change[FOCUS] Mr Corbyn and Mr Johnson clashed over the issue at Prime Minister’s Questions in the Commons today. Mr Corbyn quoted Ms O’Neill, saying “there has been a huge lack of leadership and engagement from this Government”. Mr Johnson replied: “If you look at what this Government is achieving and already has achieved on climate change, it is quite phenomenal.” The UN climate talks are the most important since the Paris Agreement to curb global warming was secured in 2015. Countries are expected to deliver more ambitious domestic plans for cutting greenhouse gases by 2030, as current proposals are not enough to prevent dangerous temperature rises. Pressure is also on countries to set out long-term plans for cutting emissions, with the science now clear that the world must reduce greenhouse gases to zero in a matter of decades to avoid the worst impacts of climate change. The run-up to the talks will require a major diplomatic effort from the UK to secure ambitious climate action from countries - at a time when Britain is also negotiating trade agreements with the EU and other nations.
  37

 37 : COP25_UK41
MADRID, Spain – The African Development Bank ( HYPERLINK www.AfDB.org ) has urged the continent’s nations to stay the course on climate action, after a marathon session of talks at the twenty-fifth Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ( COP 25 ) in Madrid. The conference was scheduled to run from 2 to 13 December, but only concluded business on Sunday, two days after the official programme ended. Meanwhile, back home, Africans were reminded of the all-too-real consequences if these talks fail to deliver results. Thousands of East Africans have been displaced in the wake of heavy rains that have battered the region since October, and more wet weather is expected due to an Indian Ocean Dipole attributed to the warming of the ocean. Such extreme weather events should galvanise Africans; their governments are spending 2% of GDP on climate related disasters, said Anthony Nyong, Director for Climate Change and Green Growth at the African Development Bank. He encouraged the global community to remain steadfast in finding effective solutions to climate change.The annual negotiations are now in their 25th year. “The global community, and in particular Africa has a lot to offer in terms of solutions; what is evidently lacking is the global political will to turn potential into wealth to serve humanity and the planet,”said Nyong, who led the Bank’s delegation to the UN conference. At the conference, African delegates pushed for support for climate finance to build resilience against the impact of climate change and for special consideration for Africa around targets contained in the treaties under discussion. The discussions at COP 25 centred around the landmark 2015 Paris Agreement, which calls on countries to cut carbon emissions to ensure that global temperatures do not rise by more than 2’b0C by the end of this century, while attempting to contain it within 1.5’b0C.The conference ended with a declaration on the “urgent need” to close the gap between existing emissions pledges and the temperature goals of the Paris agreement. The African Development Bank attended the conference to lend strategic support to its regional member countries in the negotiations. Nyong pointed out that Africa is committed; 51 of the 54 African countries have already ratified their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement signed at the landmark COP21 in Paris. The NDCs are specific climate change targets that each country must set. Support for the Bank-funded Desert to Power project highlighted Africa’s determination to strive for a climate-friendly world, especially for its local populations, said Nyong. Desert to Power is a $ 20 billion initiative to deploy solar energy solutions across the entire Sahel region, generating 10,000 MW to provide 250 million people with clean electricity. “The African Development Bank stands ready as ever to assist its regional member countries to build resilience against climate change, as indicated by the Bank’s decision to join theAlliance for Hydromet Development, announced at COP 25 ( HYPERLINK The Bank will also continue to drive initiatives to strengthen the ability of regional member countries to advocate robustly at global forums such as COP 25 , Nyong added. One example was the Bank’s participation at the annual African Ministerial Conference on the Environment (AMCEN) and support for the Africa Group of Negotiations (AGN).”We look forward to engaging further with regional member countries and other parties to ensure that the continent’s development agenda remains on track,” Nyong added. Leaders and institutions from 196 nations plus the European Union, who have signed up to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, attended the conference in Madrid. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). Media Contact: Gershwin Wanneburg Communication and External Relations Department African Development Bank Email: HYPERLINK mailto:g.wanneburg@afdb.org g.wanneburg@afdb.org About the African Development Bank Group: The African Development Bank Group ( ~ HYPERLINK www.AfDB.org ) is Africa’s premier development finance institution. It comprises three distinct entities: the African Development Bank (AfDB), the African Development Fund (ADF) and the Nigeria Trust Fund (NTF). On the ground in 41 African countries with an external office in Japan, the Bank contributes to the economic development and the social progress of its 54 regional member states. For more information: ~ HYPERLINK www.AfDB.org (Distributed by M2 Communications ( ~ HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  38

 38 : COP22_UK240
November 22, 2016 Today, Chairmen and CEOs from six major European energy companies - Centrica, CEZ, ENGIE, Fortum, Iberdrola, Innogy - representing the Magritte initiative1, gathered at the European Parliament in Strasbourg to call for a higher level of ambition in the reform of the European carbon market (Emissions Trading Scheme, “EU ETS”). They organised a public hearing with members of the European Parliament. The companies welcomed the ratification of the Paris agreement and its entering into force before the COP22 . This shows once again the leadership of the European Union in the fight against climate change. The EU must now turn its long term climate commitments (80-95% of greenhouse gas emission reductions compared to 1990 by 2050) into concrete measures in order to align the EU ETS with the objectives agreed in Paris. The reform proposed by the European Commission, whilst welcome, will not be sufficient to live up to Europe’s ambitious low-carbon agenda and to secure the shift to low carbon technologies. A functioning EU ETS is critical to make the energy transition possible in a cost effective way while providing the private sector with clear and robust price signals to invest in low carbon and carbon free technologies. According to the International Energy Agency (IEA) investments of almost USD 2.5 trillion are required in the EU’s power sector over the period 2015-2040 to reach its climate goals. The energy sector accounts for almost 60% of greenhouse gas emissions covered by the EU ETS. Policymakers must go beyond measures taken so far to strengthen ETS (“backloading”/ Market Stability Reserve) and the current proposal under discussion. The negotiations of its “4th phase” (2021-2030) provide a unique opportunity to fix the European carbon market. In this context, a combination of short and long term measures to fix the EU ETS is needed, no single measure being able to do that alone. Therefore, new initiatives must go beyond the current texts under discussion with the aim of: In this context, a combination of short and long term measures to fix the EU ETS is needed, no single measure being able to do that alone. Therefore, new initiatives must go beyond the current texts under discussion with the aim of:Fostering robust price signals on the market - a significant increase in CO2 prices is necessary to unlock the full decarbonisation potential of the power sector in the future. Measures adopted at EU level should be preferred over uncoordinated national initiatives that undermine the ETS and disrupt the level-playing field in the European Union. These proposals must go hand in hand with efficient carbon leakage provisions to protect the competitiveness of European industries exposed to international trade. 1 Since its launch in May 2013, the Magritte Group has offered its assessment of the energy and climate situation in Europe. The CEOs of the ten companies that make up the group aim to contribute to the debate by offering constructive proposals, in particular concrete solutions to revitalize Europe’s energy and climate policy.
  39

 39 : COP26_UK243
With strong personalities lining the halls, who can consider themselves a winner or loser following negotiators leaving the halls of the SEC? Nicola Sturgeon - Winner The First Minister had one job for the fortnight of COP26 - position herself as a progressive and forward-thinking voice on climate change, pressuring world leaders with power to move further on their climate aims. On this, she succeeded, with well-placed photo-ops throughout the two-week conference suggesting she had more influence on proceedings than was, in fact, the case given the lack of a formal role. Free from the responsibilities or accountability of a head of state facing the realities of negotiations, the SNP leader seemed to relish the opportunity to amp up the rhetoric in front of a global audience. Boris Johnson - Loser Having to defend your country’ s reputation amid a storm of accusations of sleaze and corruption in the middle of what was billed as the most important climate change conference of recent years is a situation no Prime Minister wants to find themselves in. READ MORE: HYPERLINK COP26 : What is the 1.5 degrees Celcius climate change target? What will happen if the world goes past 1.5 degrees of global warming? Yet, through no fault, but his own, that was the experience of Boris Johnson as the row surrounding Owen Paterson and MPs holding second jobs became the main event during COP26 . He ended the fortnight battered and bruised by a chastening political reality check, and a watered-down climate deal. Alok Sharma - Winner The COP26 President will only have enhanced his reputation as not only a safe pair of hands, but also a politician willing to put in the hard yards for a meaningful outcome. His show of emotion and apology following the agreement of the Glasgow Climate Pact will likely put him on the right side of history as a man cognisant of the very real impact of global warming beyond 1.5C. Lorna Slater and Patrick Harvie - Losers Alongside a needless row over Greenpeace’ s criticism of the Scottish Government, the first UK Green Party to enter power seemed to lose its environmental teeth. A message from the Editor: If you haven’t already, please consider supporting our trusted, fact-checked journalism by taking out HYPERLINK a digital subscription
  40

 40 : COP23_UK200
DEERFIELD, Ill.- Mondelez International today announced it has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Forestry Commission of Ghana, Ghana Cocoa Board and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), reinforcing its commitment to reduce emissions in its cocoa supply chain across Ghana. Through Cocoa Life, Mondelez International’s signature sustainable cocoa sourcing program, the company will take a leading role in implementing projects to deliver the Ghana Cocoa Forest REDD+ Program (GCFRP) which aims at tackling deforestation and forest degradation. ‘Deforestation makes up the largest part of our carbon footprint, which is why it’s so important for us to address this issue head on. Through this collaboration, we can be even more efficient in safeguarding the environment and helping cocoa farmers become resilient against climate change,’ said Hubert Weber, Executive Vice President and President Europe at Mondelez International. ‘This partnership builds on Cocoa Life’s ongoing forest protection efforts. It’s an exciting new chapter in our work in Ghana and fits with the commitment we made by signing the Cocoa & Forests Initiative Framework for Action at COP23 .’ As one of the largest cocoa-producing countries, Ghana supplies about 20 percent of the world’s cocoa. According to the GCFRP, Ghana also has one of the highest deforestation rates in Africa at 3.2 percent per annum. This is primarily due to unsustainable expansion of cocoa and other agricultural crops. Mondelez International is contributing $ 5 million over five years to the GCFRP, which aims to significantly reduce the high rate of deforestation and forest degradation, as well as their associated greenhouse carbon emissions, from cocoa farming within Ghana’s High Forest Zone. Together with these partners, Mondelez International will execute an action plan in key Hotspot Intervention Areas, focusing on: Mapping all land uses, including cocoa farms Implementing climate smart cocoa practices to increase yields and sustainability Legislative and policy reform to support program execution Coordination and measurement, reporting and verification ‘The Ghana government is promoting public-private partnerships, which are critical for sustainable economic growth in all sectors, including the forestry sector. It is, therefore, encouraging that Mondelez International’s Cocoa Life program is partnering with government to implement an integrated landscape approach to sustainable cocoa production and forest management,’ said John Peter Amewu, Minister for Lands and Natural Resources in Ghana and signatory of the Cocoa & Forests Initiative.
‘Cocoa Life is a valuable asset to the realization of the Joint Framework for Action under the Cocoa & Forests Initiative, as it brings on board advanced environmental protection strategies at farmer, community and national levels.’ Since 2013, Cocoa Life has worked with the Ghana Cocoa Board and UNDP to promote environmentally sustainable production practices while conserving ecosystems and natural resources in cocoa landscapes across Ghana. Mondelez International is also a founding member of the Cocoa & Forests Initiative, in which 12 leading cocoa and chocolate companies are partnering to reduce deforestation in the cocoa supply chain. About Cocoa Life Cocoa Life aims to create empowered and thriving cocoa farming communities, reaching more than 200,000 farmers across six countries and benefiting more than a million people by 2022. Mondelez International’s ultimate goal is to sustainably source all the company’s cocoa supply, mainly via Cocoa Life. By working in partnership with farmers, NGOs, suppliers and government institutions, Cocoa Life is part of Mondelez International’s Impact for Growth - a commitment to driving business growth with positive change in the world. Follow our progress on HYPERLINK www.cocoalife.org/progress About Mondelez International Mondelez International, Inc. (NASDAQ:MDLZ) is building the best snacking company in the world, with 2016 net revenues of approximately $ 26 billion. Creating more moments of joy in approximately 165 countries, Mondelez International is a world leader in biscuits, chocolate, gum, candy and powdered beverages, featuring global Power Brands such as Oreo and belVita biscuits; Cadbury Dairy Milk and Milka chocolate; and Trident gum. Mondelez International is a proud member of the Standard and Poor’s 500, NASDAQ 100 and Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Visit ~ HYPERLINK www.mondelezinternational.com HYPERLINK www.twitter.com/MDLZ Contact: +1-847-943-5678 HYPERLINK mailto:news@mdlz.com news@mdlz.com [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  41
