 1 : COP23_UK248
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon has pledged to make an early decision on the date Scotland seeks to aspire to cut emissions output to zero. In a keynote speech to the UN Climate Change Conference, COP23 , in Bonn, Ms Sturgeon pointed to the Scottish Government’s commitment eight years ago to cut 2020 emissions by 42 per cent. She said: “We are on course to meet that target and are now proposing to increase our ambition for the years beyond..”Scotland will go further where we can - for example we have recently set an earlier target than the UK for phasing out new diesel and petrol cars.”


 2 : COP22_UK281
November 14, 2016 South-South cooperation is growing, as developing countries are helping each other to address climate change, sustainable development and implementation of the Paris Agreement, said senior United Nations officials and government Ministers at the UN Climate Conference in Marrakech ( COP 22 ). “It is encouraging and inspiring to see how South-South Cooperation is gaining traction,” said the Special Advisor of the UN Secretary-General on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and Climate Change, Dr. David Nabarro, at the High-Level Forum on South-South Cooperation on Climate Change, one of the event’s kicking off the second week of the 22nd Conference of Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Dr. Nabarro stressed that the Climate Partnerships for the Global South, also known as Southern Climate Partnership Incubator
(SCPI), initiated by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, in the margins of the A HREF=” HYPERLINK NewsID=53752 NewsID=53752 “>signinig ceremony for the Paris Agreement, held at UN Headquarters in New York this past April,”is about making connections.” The Paris Agreement entered into force on 4 November 2016. The United Nations has launched the SCPI to initiate, facilitate, and support partnerships that will help developing countries address climate change. “SCPI is leveraging the UN system to match the needs of developing countries with counterparts willing and able to meet them. Through the SCPI we can help each one to learn from the other,” said Dr. Nabarro, adding that the SCPI has reviewed 300 good cases of bilateral, trilateral and plurilateral partnerships facilitated by the UN, non-governmental organizations and multilateral development banks. The President of COP 22 , Salaheddine Mezouar, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Morocco, underscored that the South-South cooperation is “not in opposition to North-South or South-North cooperation.” Indeed, he said, through South-South cooperation, “we want to assure that countries of the South are taking charge, that they have much to share and much to bring to each other,” he told the participants of the Forum. “As we are in a changing world, the balances of this new world also depend on the strengthening of South-South partnerships and South-South cooperation. [Momentum in both these areas] will help move much faster and will also help developing countries find other levers to meet the challenges they face,” he added. The Executive Secretary of UNFCCC, Patricia Espinosa reminded the Forum’s participants that “while it is clear that developed countries need to provide support to developing countries to reach their goals of the Paris [that accord] also encourages complimentary support such as South-South cooperation.” Indeed, South-South cooperation is rapidly becoming an integral component of international cooperation to address climate change. Dr. Nabarro thanked China for its leadership and generous support to advance South-South cooperation and “for bringing together action on climate and action on sustainable development in such a decisive way.” Today’s Forum was co-hosted by China, Morocco and the UN. He cited China’s flagship programme, the South-South Cooperation Fund on climate change, which “is expanding the capacities of more developing countries to engage in this kind of collaboration.” He also stressed China’s significant contributions towards regional and global low-carbon transition with a solar alliance and the Africa Renewable Energy Initiative (AREI). He also mentioned Brazil, who is leading the efforts on Biofuture Platform, a joint initiative to decarbonize the transport sector. [embedded content] UN Special Adviser hails developing countries’ “great contributions” to #ClimateAction At the High-Level Forum, the Special Representative of China on Climate Change Affairs, Mr. Zhenhua Xie, said that his country was willing to share its experiences in regard with coping with climate change. “We need to promote more South-South cooperation,” he said, calling on international organizations to act as “bridges.”


 3 : COP26_UK227
PUPILS at an Erskine secondary school staged a mock COP26 event to learn more about climate change. First year students from Park Mains High competed in teams that each represented different countries, such as the UK, USA and China, which are currently taking part in negotiations at the Glasgow conference. In their nine groups, the pupils discussed the impact that climate change was having on their specific country and what they were doing to tackle it. At the end of the event, the UK team were chosen as the winners for having the most popular proposals to limit climate change, which included cutting fossil fuels, implementing meat-free days and reducing single-use plastic in supermarkets. Kirsty Scott, Modern Studies teacher, told The Gazette: E2The event went very well and the kids got a lot out of it. The S6 pupils were leading the COP26 event in our assembly hall and helped organise the content. E2They got a huge amount of leadership skills out of it, which is great for their UCAS applications, and the S1 pupils really got to integrate with senior pupils, which they really enjoyed.E2 Ross Greer, who represents Renfrewshire as Green MSP for West Scotland, attended the morning event to answer questions from pupils. Natalie Don, MSP for Renfrewshire North and West, also attended at the school in the afternoon to speak with students as the main part of the mock COP26 event got under way. She said: E2I was delighted to attend Park Mains High SchoolE2s S1 COP26 event to see a very informative presentation by the pupils focusing on the contributions by various countries and companies regarding climate change, and the steps they are taking towards achieving net zero carbon emissions. E2It is extremely important that the voices of young people are listened to on vitally important issues such as tackling climate change so it was brilliant to chat to some of the pupils to hear their thoughts on what our priorities should be for the years ahead.E2 As well as running the mock COP26 event, the secondary school has a very active eco-club which organises a weekly bottle drive to raise money for charity. The school is also in the process of working to get its eco-flag and has started collecting crisp packets to help create blankets for homeless people. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH


 4 : COP21_UK58
The CDP and the We Mean Business initiative calls for companies to strive for low carbon economy to secure sustainable economic growth. APP, along with other members of the initiative, will call for a universal climate agreement ahead of the UN Climate Change Conference ( COP21 ) in Paris in December. The companies intend to remove commodity-driven deforestation from their supply chains which accounts for close to 15% of the world’s green house gas emissions. They will work on the sustainable production of agricultural commodities such as soy, palm oil, leather, beef, timber, and pulp. APP, which has already implemented its zero deforestation commitment across its supply chains in February 2013, now commits to the ‘Removing Deforestation’ pillar of the ‘Road to Paris’ initiative. Commenting on the initiative, APP sustainability managing director Aida Greenbury said: “As a signatory to the ‘Road to Paris’ initiative, we have demonstrated our continued commitment to protecting the world’s remaining forests.”Ambitious targets such as zero deforestation can be agreed to, implemented and achieved by global companies, many of those operating in emerging economies. Our view is that wherever a company is involved in the forest supply chain, they should be committing to fight climate change and deforestation. “We look forward to working with CDP and the We Mean Business Coalition to help spread this message during Climate Week in New York as well as the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris in December.” In August this year, APP announced plans to HYPERLINK phase out around 7,000 hectares of commercial plantation in order to protect carbon-rich peatlands in Indonesia.


 5 : COP22_UK178
Interview:~Nikhil Rathi NIKHIL RATHI: A key part of the agreement is to give the CSE access to technologies that provide international investors with a better investment environment and infrastructure. It is also critical to develop education and training programmes, and to this end the development of a financial cluster in Morocco means the improvement of its human capital. Allowing local firms to attract more investors is another area the agreement addresses. It provides access to a network of capital market participants throughout Europe. Our partnership also enhances the CSE’s visibility. London offers very strong infrastructure, with a diversified banking industry and a solid community of lawyers, managers and accountants. From now on, the CSE can leverage this “network effect”. A recent event hosted in London to enhance Morocco’s visibility was very successful, and investors acknowledged Morocco’s strong-performing economy. The LSE will benefit because Morocco has the ambition of becoming an investment hub in Africa. We believe Morocco opens a window to business opportunities in sub-Saharan Africa, especially in francophone countries. Anglophone Africa has also seen greater connectedness with Morocco within the last few years. This is of interest to us because Africa’s economies are thriving and offer greater investment opportunities than other parts of the world in certain domains. What sort of lessons might be learned from the development of other financial hubs? RATHI: Emerging markets can learn a lot from global financial hubs. A strong legal and regulatory framework is of first and foremost importance to building a sound and sustainable financial hub. Emerging markets need to comply with international standards in terms of legal and regulatory frameworks, and disclosure of financial information in order to reassure investors. Other factors, such as the presence of international companies, the quality of human capital, and better connectivity with other countries and financial markets, are top priorities for emerging financial hubs. What we have seen in Morocco is very encouraging. The ongoing efforts to maintain a strong cluster effect to further attract human capital will make a difference in the long run. The kingdom clearly stands out in the region thanks to its strong institutions, growing wealth and significant economic reforms. Despite slower growth in 2016, the forecast remains very positive. Which foreign markets has Morocco developed relations with, and which sectors are seen as having the most investment potential? RATHI: I would pick out several sectors that seem most encouraging. The energy sector in Morocco, and in the region as a whole, offers unparalleled opportunities, since consumption and demand are increasing sharply. International investors could help to raise corporate standards. We also see renewable energy and technology as being very significant. In the wake of the UN conference on climate change , green finance will also become a major contributor to the growth of capital markets. Morocco has developed a network with the US, China and the EU. Our expertise can help support growth by developing infrastructure and market liquidity through the use of technology and the transfer of know-how. Technological improvements in international trading systems are expected to boost functionality and post-trade services. Meanwhile, education and training programmes should help with the transfer of knowledge going forward.


 6 : COP21_UK40
Taipei, Taiwan - Delta announced that it joined the ‘Road to Paris’ initiative by the Carbon Disclosure Project and has committed to a 30% reduction in its electricity intensity by the year 2020, which follows a 50% reduction already achieved by the company over the past five years. Delta Electronics will actively participate in a series of events that reflect its commitment to sustainability during the upcoming COP21 . Delta will present its 21 green buildings, which it has constructed over the past 10 years, at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. In addition, Delta will organize a side event, which has been approved by the United Nations COP21 General Secretariat, to share its knowledge and achievements in energy savings and the construction of green buildings. Mr. Ping Cheng, chief executive officer of Delta Electronics, emphasized, ‘Delta has a long-term commitment to sustainability. From 2010 to 2014, we successfully reduced our electricity intensity (electricity use per product value) by 50% compared to 2009 and in the past 10 years we have constructed 21 green buildings. Delta is now enhancing our commitment by engaging in the CDP’s Road to Paris initiative and promising a further 30% reduction in electricity intensity by 2020, and we are expanding our commitment to the whole group.’ Ms. Shan-Shan Guo, chief brand officer of Delta Electronics and executive director of Delta Electronics Foundation, said, ‘Delta is honored to have received permission by the UN COP21 General Secretariat to organize a side event at the Climate Generations areas during COP21 . After 10 years of implementing green buildings, we wish to share our experience by organizing a side event and hosting the ’Delta 21 Green Buildings at COP21 Exhibition’ at the Grand Palais, and show the world the efforts of a corporation that is deeply committed to sustainability.’ Since 2007, the Delta Electronics Foundation has attended the UN Climate Change Conferences annually, and in 2014, it hosted a side event in which Delta introduced their experience on rebuilding the Namasia Elementary School. Over the years, Delta’s efforts to reduce carbon emissions have been recognized by international organizations such as the CDP, which selected Delta for its Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) in 2014-the only company chosen from the Greater China region. For the past five consecutive years, Delta has also been a member of the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) World Index and was a leader in the ICT Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Components in 2015. 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP21 ) will be the most important climate change conference in the past 10 years. We expect the participating countries to reach an agreement to reduce carbon emissions. During COP21 , Delta will use its advanced ‘edge-blending’ projection capabilities to exhibit its entire portfolio of green buildings inside the Grand Palais in Paris, France. The Delta Electronics Foundation will also organize a side event to share Delta’s contributions on green buildings and carbon footprint reduction. Contact: Delta Group 186, Ruey Kuang Road Neihu, Taipei 11491 Taiwan, R.O.C Tel: +886-2-8797-2088 Email: HYPERLINK mailto:news@delta.com.tw news@delta.com.tw [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk


 7 : COP26_UK72
A new sustainability skills programme to help small firms realise their growing climate action ambitions is being launched following the COP26 summit. Small Business Britain and Oxford Brookes Business School have developed the new programme, after their joint research showed a huge appetite among small businesses to reduce carbon emissions, but that key barriers are preventing many from taking action. The research pointed to a high level of sustainability consciousness among entrepreneurs, with 71 per cent saying they want to do more in the next two years to reduce carbon emissions. Yet 41 per cent feel access to finance limits them, while 30% are concerned about the time commitment. The new ‘Small Business Sustainability Basics programme’ is a free, online, six-week short course delivered in partnership with Oxford Brookes Business School and leading sustainability experts. It aims to increase the awareness of small business owners about sustainability and net zero, as well as providing practical insights to realise green growth opportunities. “Last year COP26”There is huge passion amongst the UK’s entrepreneurs to take action against climate change. Many are already taking important steps and placing sustainability at the heart of their businesses, becoming increasingly mission driven on this issue. But their collective impact could be so much greater with more support, encouragement, and guidance. “Our new programme is designed to supercharge the sustainability skills of the nation’s entrepreneurs, and provide a key foundation to build from.” The research also showed that the road to net zero is something that small businesses need greater clarity and guidance on. 12% of business owners said they are not aware of the government’s net zero targets and 42% don’t understand what is required. A further 24% of businesses are not doing anything to lower their carbon emissions, but would like to do more. “With small firms representing 99 per cent of UK business and half of the UK’s business driven emissions, according to the British Business Bank, small businesses can play a major role in helping the UK meet its target of reducing carbon emissions to zero by 2050,” said Professor Tim Vorley, Pro Vice-Chancellor and Dean of Oxford Brookes Business School. “There are also major benefits for small businesses too, from strengthening resilience and reducing costs, to engaging new customers. Our research shows that small businesses see the opportunity here but perceive cost and time to be barriers, so it’s important they are supported on this journey. This free, short course is designed to overcome these challenges, and help entrepreneurs to get started and grow their confidence.” The Small Business Sustainability Basics scheme will run from March to May this year, providing guidance across a whole range of sustainability areas from energy use and transport, to supply chain and offsetting. Visit here to register. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH


 8 : COP21_UK188
Small island countries facing flooding from rising sea levels are closing in on a deal with wealthy countries that would see loss and damage support measures included in the HYPERLINK global climate accord to be finalised in Paris this week . Developed countries have been resisting such a move for more than a year, fearing it could make them liable for billions of dollars in compensation. But Miguel Arias Ca’f1ete, EU climate commissioner, told the Financial Times there was now a growing understanding that loss and damage provisions would be included in the Paris agreement, as long as they did not expose wealthy countries to new claims for compensation. A draft text of the agreement was finalised on Saturday. Mr Arias Ca’f1ete said a meeting that Barack Obama, US president, had with five island leaders last week at the Paris talks, known as COP21 , had helped smooth the way for a compromise on what has become one of the more divisive issues in UN climate talks in recent years. I am very glad that the US is showing flexibility because from the very beginning of this process we have supported this concept of course with adequate language [on compensation], he said. But he added: There is one thing that we do not accept and will not accept in this agreement and that is the notion that there should be liability and compensation for loss and damage. That is a line that we can’ t cross. This is not a US-centric position but it is a position that is important for us. It is still unclear what type of loss and damage measures might make it into the final accord that delegates from nearly 200 nations are due to seal this Friday. The draft text of the agreement called for a climate change displacement co-ordination facility to be set up to relocate people affected by the fierce storms and other extreme weather scientists say is more likely as global temperatures rise. The text also says plans to address irreversible and permanent damage resulting from human-induced climate change should be completed within four years. Island country delegates said they were very pleased wealthy countries were no long rejecting outright the notion that their failure to combat global warming meant extra support was needed for small, poor countries facing a threat to their existence. But James Fletcher of St Lucia, the small Caribbean island state, said the question of how to frame loss and damage support in the Paris agreement was still a stumbling block. We believe we already have avenues for liability and compensation under international law and international agreements, he said. The discussion going on right now is a discussion among lawyers. How do we end up with a text that allays the fears of the US, the EU and other countries that we are creating a mechanism for liability and compensation. And how do you address our concern that we do not give up any rights that we presently already have under international agreements. UN climate talks have been held for more than 20 years without managing to produce the deep cuts in global emissions from burning fossil fuels that scientists say are required to avert dangerous levels of global warming. HYPERLINK Listen to the FT News podcast


 9 : COP24_UK196
December 12, 2018 KATOWICE, POLAND – The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has launched a new platform aimed at helping its developing member countries in Asia and the Pacific mobilize funding to meet their goals under the Paris Agreement. The NDC Advance platform will help countries mobilize finance to implement Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) regarding greenhouse gas emissions that each country has voluntarily committed to under the Paris Agreement. NDCs also describe priority actions for countries to adapt to climate change. The announcement was made at the 24th Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ( COP24 ) in Katowice, Poland, which is aiming to finalize a rulebook for the Paris Agreement when it goes into effect on 1 January 2020. The agreement aims to limit the increase in the global average temperature to below 2’b0C, while aiming for 1.5’b0C. “Through their NDCs, our developing member countries have made ambitious commitments to respond to climate change,” said ADB Vice-President for Knowledge Management and Sustainable Development Mr. Bambang Susantono. “We need to ensure that countries are able to mobilize the needed financing to deliver on their commitments. NDC Advance will help countries devise investment plans to tap financing from a variety of sources and to implement priority projects effectively.” NDC Advance is funded through a $ 4.55 million grant from ADB and will have three aims: providing technical assistance that helps countries better engage with potential sources of climate finance and to make use of innovative finance mechanisms; identifying and prioritizing climate projects; and supporting countries in tracking how projects deliver against their NDC goals. The new initiative will help propel the climate actions ADB has committed to under its Strategy 2030 program. ADB earlier this year committed to ensuring that 75% of its operations will support climate change mitigation and adaptation by 2030, while providing cumulative climate financing of $ 80 billion from its own sources between 2019 and 2030. ADB is committed to achieving a prosperous, inclusive, resilient, and sustainable Asia and the Pacific, while sustaining its efforts to eradicate extreme poverty. Established in 1966, it is owned by 67 members–48 from the region. In 2017, ADB operations totaled $ 32.2 billion, including $ 11.9 billion in cofinancing.


 10 : COP22_UK199
November 16, 2016 Aware of their vulnerabilities to the impacts of climate change, countries in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region have begun taking action to confront the phenomenon and today, several highlighted their initiatives at the United Nations Climate Conference in Marrakech, Morocco, known as COP 22 . “Climate change will make a difficult situation much worse, and will affect millions of people in the Middle East and North Africa region,” World Bank MENA Vice-President Hafez Ghanem told a press conference at the 22nd Conference of Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). “Countries in the region are aware of the challenges, and have begun taking action.” Agriculture in the MENA region is especially vulnerable to changes in temperature and precipitation. As global temperatures rise, they will rise even faster in MENA, causing more frequent and severe droughts. The 2015 drought in Morocco destroyed more than half the wheat harvest and led to a 1.5 per cent drop in the country’s Gross Domestic Output. During a panel discussion on UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s Initiative on Climate Resilience at COP 22 on Friday, Saudi Arabia’s Chief Climate Negotiator, Khalid Abuleif, said that the region “is going to see a lot of challenges from an ecosystem point of view and from a socio-economic point of view.” The challenge is not only about reducing gas emissions but also about raising “our resilience.” Mr. Abuleif stressed that as Saudi Arabia is diversifying its economy, any new sector will be put under regulations that will address sustainability and climate resilience. He added that his country is focusing especially on water management, “making sure we are using water in a sustainable manner,” and on the protection of coastal zones. Tunisia has announced a 41 per cent emission reduction by 2030. Most importantly, 13 per cent will be based on national efforts, while the rest will come from support provided by the international community. A week after COP 22 concludes, Tunisia will host an international investment conference (29-30 November) to mobilize $ 2.4 billion dollars, 40 per cent of which will be allocated to projects pertaining to the ‘green economy,’ with a focus on renewable energy. In Morocco, to meet the country’s commitments on climate action, the Bank Al Maghrib (Central Bank of Morocco) recently unveiled the road map of the Moroccan financial sector in climate financing. That country has also taken steps to adapt its agriculture, with better water management and more climate-resistant crops, while also lowering its emissions by eliminating most energy subsidies and with the construction of the large solar plant in Ouarzazate, World Bank senior official Hafez Ghanem noted. “This is the kind of comprehensive climate action we will support across the region, with a special focus on the poorest and most vulnerable,” he added. The World Bank Group announced on Tuesday a new plan to ramp up support for countries in the MENA region by nearly doubling the portion of Bank financing dedicated to climate action, taking it to around $ 1.5 billion dollars per year by 2020. The plan focuses on four priorities: food and water security; sustainable cities adapted to new climate conditions; the transition to low-carbon energy; and the protection of the poorest that are most exposed to the impacts of climate change. The current Conference follows the adoption by 196 UNFCCC States Parties last December, of the Paris Agreement, so-named after the French capital where it was approved, which aims to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change by keeping the global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit it to 1.5 degrees Celsius. The Agreement entered into force in time for COP 22 , which has been under way since 7 November. Before the meeting wraps up on Saturday, 18 November, parties hope to define the rules of implementation of the Paris Agreement and establish a viable plan to provide financial support to developing countries to support climate action.


 11 : COP26_UK219
JUST days after it was agreed on by nearly 200 countries at the COP26 summit in November, the reverberations of the Glasgow Climate Pact were being felt. In the immediate aftermath of the conference, the price of carbon in the European Union’s carbon market hit a record high of € 66 a tonne. Scotland’s first minister Nicola Sturgeon came out against a new North Sea oil field, putting more pressure on the UK government to reconsider its approval. The European Commission set out a draft law to block imports of beef and other commodities if they are linked to deforestation. Yet it will take a while for the Glasgow Climate Pact’s eye-catching promise to “phase-down” coal to be fully adopted. For example, in October, China’s coal output hit the highest level since March 2015. It may take even longer for the effects of the pact’s pledge to phase out “inefficient fossil fuel subsidies” to be felt, judging by the G7’s slow progress on a past commitment to end them. The achievements of the deal reached in Glasgow, UK, will play out over decades to come. Next year will be the first big test. By the end of 2022, countries are meant to deliver on COP26 ‘s “request” - diplomatic language that amounts to a commitment - to issue better 2030 emissions reduction plans. It will take a while for the Glasgow Climate Pact’s promise to ’phase-down’ coal to be fully adopted Those plans must be aligned with the 2015 Paris Agreement’s goals of holding global warming to 1.5’b0C above pre-industrial levels and well below 2’b0C. Current plans by Australia, Brazil and Indonesia are among those rated “highly insufficient” and in line with a 4’b0C future by independent analysts. Countries that have already set a stretching target, such as the UK’s plan of a 68 per cent emissions cut by 2030, aren’t expected to upgrade their ambitions. India announced new goals at COP26 , including sourcing half of its electricity from renewables by 2030, and will be expected to submit them in a formal plan to the UN. Officially, it should have done that by the end of 2020. One issue that lower-income countries will watch closely in 2022 is whether higher-income nations are on track to deliver the $100 billion a year of climate finance they had promised by 2020 and that they expressed “deep regret” at missing. The figure is now expected to be hit in 2023, though US climate envoy John Kerry said in Glasgow that he thinks it may be met earlier. COP26 resolved outstanding rules of the Paris Agreement on transparency, time frames for emissions targets and a new global carbon market, which will now take years to be established. Eyes will also turn to the formation of a new independent group, announced by UN secretary general Ant’f3nio Guterres at the summit, to scrutinise net-zero pledges by the private sector. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH


 12 : COP22_UK182
The agreement was signed with the consortium led by ACWA Power at the COP22 in Marrakech during a ceremony. The NOOR PV I program will feature three projects: NOOR Ouarzazate IV, with a capacity of around 70MW, 80MW NOOR Laayoune,~and 20MW NOOR Boujdour. It~is the first solar PV phase of the NOOR Solar Plan, which already has~three concentrated solar power~projects in Ouarzazate. Morocco is the only nation in North Africa, with few fossil fuel reserves and it imports 90% of its energy. The country now plans to produce at least 52% of its energy from renewable resources by 2030. The three projects are expected to help the country~reduce thousands of tonnes of carbon emissions occurring per year and supply clean energy to thousands of homes with every year in operation. Sterling and Wilson claims that this project will be one of the largest solar PV plants in North African region and it can be in operation for 20 years. As the EPC contractor for this project, the company said that it will maximize the use of local resources for the construction of the solar plants, which can ensure local community development. The company also noted that it will~provide specialised training to both skilled and unskilled local resources to meet project expectations. Construction of the NOOR PV I Program is expected to begin shortly and is estimated to be completed in one year’ s time. Sterling and Wilson Renewable and Electrical president Bikesh Ogra said: These projects have been won after an intense competitive bidding process. The success around these projects, which are amongst the much spoken about, in the global fraternity, has been a matter of great pride for us as a group. Morocco has been one of our most important target markets and these projects would hopefully enable us to consolidate our positioning for all forthcoming opportunities in the country and the region as a whole. Image: Sterling and Wilson wins contract to develop 170MW solar PV plant in Morocco. Photo: Courtesy of graur codrin/FreeDigitalPhotos.net.


 13 : COP24_UK95
A new project is urging people to make five lifestyle changes to combat climate change. Eating less red meat, driving an electric car, holidaying in the UK, insulating your home and installing solar panels are the most important actions you can take to reduce harmful carbon dioxide emissions and benefit your quality of life, according to One Home, a website launched in Somerset this week. The not-for-profit website encourages people to take action on climate change by giving practical solutions. It is the brainchild of Wells-based environmental scientist Angela Terry who has 20 years of experience working in renewables and was one of the first pioneers of community wind farms. Ms Terry said: “The subject of climate change is a difficult one.”Most people accept it is happening but are sometimes confused and overwhelmed by what they can do about it. “Having worked in the green industry for many years, I saw a real need for one platform which brings together accurate, practical information into one place that equips people with the know-how on what they can do to make a difference and how to adapt to climate change. One Home fills this crucial gap.”We want to give options that offer the best quality of life while reducing carbon emissions. Making these choices doesn’t mean making sacrifices - in fact, a low carbon lifestyle is healthier, more affordable and more comfortable. “For the biggest impact, it’s all about saving energy to reduce carbon dioxide - the main greenhouse gas that causes climate change - and that’s why we’ve developed these five clear ways to do just that.” One Home is being piloted in Somerset and across the Westcountry first before being promoted nationally later this year. The website will include a directory that enables people to find local initiatives and suppliers and people are also being asked to share their actions, via social media or simply by talking about it with others. “The South West is the natural home for this project,” Ms Terry said. “Our region has one of the country’s best renewable energy resources, including wind and sun, yet research published last year by the Norwegian University of Science and Technology shows that households in the South West emit more carbon emissions than households in any other country in Europe.” Sir David King, formerly the UK’s climate envoy and the Government’s chief scientific adviser from 2000 to 2007, said: “The 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris set an objective to ensure the planet does not exceed a 2C temperature rise above the pre-industrial level, and make every effort not to exceed 1.5C.”This will not be possible without raising awareness of the situation. One Home can play a major role in encouraging a vital transformation of consumer habits.”


 14 : COP24_UK256
Australia’s carbon emissions are again the highest on record, according to new data from the emissions-tracking organisation Ndevr Environmental. Ndevr replicates the federal government’s HYPERLINK national greenhouse gas inventory (NGGI) quarterly reports but releases them months ahead of the official data. HYPERLINK Data it has produced for the year up to September 2018 shows Australia is still on track to miss its Paris target of a 26%-28% cut to emissions on 2005 levels by 2030. Matt Drum, the managing director of Ndevr, said if emissions continued at their current rate, Australia would miss the target by a cumulative 1.1bn tonnes. When excluding unreliable land use data, Australia’s emissions for the year to September reached 558.3m tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent, an all-time high. Land use data refers to emissions from activities such as land clearing and forest management, as well as removal of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere through activities such as reforestation. Ndevr excludes land use data because the methodology the government uses to calculate these figures is opaque and there have been HYPERLINK questions about whether the scale of land-clearing in Queensland is being accurately represented .
“There’s still no policy in place to ratchet them down which is why they’re increasing,” Drum said. Electricity sector emissions were stable, but fugitive emissions, and emissions from stationary energy and transport are all still trending sharply upwards. Release of the report comes as the environment minister, Melissa Price, HYPERLINK addressed global HYPERLINK COP24 climate change talks in Katowice, Poland. Both the HYPERLINK Coalition government HYPERLINK Labor have not ruled out using controversial carryover credits from the Kyoto protocol to help meet Australia’s obligations under the Paris agreement. Labor has promised that if it wins the election it will increase Australia’s target to 45% on 2005 levels, in line with recommendations from the independent Climate Change Authority. Ndevr’s analysis said this would require a reduction of 197.1m tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent based on current emissions levels, which would be equal to taking 75m cars off the road for a year. In comparison, the Coalition’s emission reduction target would require an 80.8m tonne reduction. Breaking up Labor’s target across sectors, Ndever suggests a range of reductions will be necessary in several industries, including 61.2m tonnes from the electricity sector, 33.4m tonnes from the stationary energy sector, 23.7m tonnes from agriculture and 34.2m tonnes from transport. “If Labor come into government we can’t afford a policy vacuum,” Drum said.
“It’s looking grim. We need policy levers and we need them quickly.” Drum said the need for action was so urgent there would be no time for a full redesign of policy if there was a change of government. Instead, he said existing policies, such as the safeguard mechanism, should be amended. “They need to utilise existing policy like the safeguard mechanism and tweak it so it achieves what it is intended to achieve, which is reduce emissions,” he said. On Thursday, the Greens environment spokesperson, Sarah Hanson-Young, said Australia was using “creative emissions accounting” to try to meet its Paris targets. “Counting Kyoto credit towards Paris cheats our environment and the rest of the world,” she said. “Our emissions are going up, yet our environment minister is telling the world we are doing our bit to meet our Paris targets.”


 15 : COP25_UK192
Insiders at Whitehall have told the paper that the former Prime Minister was given the opportunity by Mr Johnson to head the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference , which is coming up in November. It is a move which is set to show the Government’s commitment to climate change. It is thought that Mr Cameron and Mr Johnson - who have shared a rivalry since their days together at Eton College - have recently mended their former fractious relationship. Related articles But Mr Cameron has reported to have rejected the proposal. And this means Mr Johnson will have to turn to a ministerial appointment to head the conference. One of the names touted is Lord Hague, a former Tory leader and foreign secretary, according to Telegraph sources. Initially Tory sources had indicated her successor would be a “Tory big beast”, someone with a huge profile worldwide plus a history of delivering major projects. But with Mr Cameron’s rejection, is it thought the Prime Minister will turn to Lord Goldsmith, following a reshuffle, who’s a reputable environmentalist. Officials who have been working on COP26 are thought to be taken under control of the Tory Government soon. Despite the snub, Mr Cameron was full of praise for the Prime Minister last week. He hailed him as a “visionary” leader, and that he would go on to be a brilliant Prime Minister, just so “long as he carries on being well behaved.” Indeed, the pair have seemingly put water under the bridge, according to the Mail on Sunday. The news comes as Mr Cameron’s entourage was left red-faced as one of the former Prime Minister’s bodyguards left a loaded Glock in a British Airways fight’s toilets. A passenger was shocked to find the 9mm pistol in the toilets, with a mass panic ensuring onboard the transatlantic flight. The plane even had to be grounded for over an hour before the pilot announced that certain personnel on board the flight were allowed to carry such weapons for the commute. But one sticky passenger refused to accept the situation, and the gun was finally removed from the plane. The retrieved weapon is thought to be a 9mm Glock 17 pistol that the close-protection officer had taken off his weapons holster to use the toilet - but had forgotten to pick up again. A source said to the Express they were just glad the gun been found by a passenger who informed the crew staff. They said they were thankful it had been picked up by someone who did the right thing. “If it had been found by someone with malign intent it could have turned into a very serious incident for everyone on board.” Scotland yard confirmed the officer involved in the incident has been suspended, pending an investigation. In a statement, the Metropolitan Police Service said: “We are aware of the incident on a flight into the UK on February 3 and the officer involved has since been removed from operational duties. We are taking this matter extremely seriously and an internal investigation is taking place.” Related articles Nigel Farage exposes moment that started Brexit process How House of Lords tried to block referendum on EU exit Royal revelation: David Cameron makes confession on Prince Harry


 16 : COP26_UK23
March 28, 2022 On March 24, the British Embassy Ashgabat was delighted to organise an online conference in Ashgabat, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Turkmenistan and the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator in Turkmenistan. The conference focussed on the outcomes and achievements of last year’s COP26 climate summit in Glasgow and was an opportunity to generate new ideas and improve cooperation to take forward the Glasgow Climate Pact. The conference was a continuation of the high-level roundtable that the British Embassy held in March 2021 in Ashgabat, ahead of the COP26 . Building on the momentum and direction set out at COP26 , representatives discussed the best ways to deliver stronger sectoral action to accelerate Turkmenistan’s transition to a low-carbon, more resource-efficient and sustainable economy. The conference helped international partners and donors better understand plans the Turkmenistan government has for decarbonisation and reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. These plans are outlined in the final draft of their new NDC, as part of their commitments under the Paris Agreement. Participants from both the UK and Turkmenistan announced new climate change initiatives between national and international partners. Those attending the event included representatives of the ministries of Turkmenistan, the UN agencies, foreign diplomatic missions, international organisations and development partners, financial institutions, university students and others. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Turkmenistan moderated the event. The Turkmen Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment Protection announced that the country’s next set of climate change plans would soon be submitted to the UN. These plans include projects to reduce both carbon dioxide and methane emissions. UN agencies pledged to continue working with Turkmenistan to address challenges of mapping emissions, changing legislation, provide technical assistance and support education. Nick Bridge, the British Foreign Secretary’s Special Representative for Climate Change, stressed the need to go clean and green and deliver on our promises faster. Kenan Poleo, the UK’s Trade Commissioner for Central Asia, highlighted that change can support growth - in the last 30 years the UK has cut emissions by 44% while growing its economy 78%. The British Ambassador, Lucia Wilde, reaffirmed the Embassy’s commitment to support both the implementation of climate change policies and support for Turkmenistan to introduce more green energy technologies. Star speakers at the conference were youth representatives who talked of the need for action to ensure their future health, prosperity and well-being. Participants identified joint priorities and new areas of climate cooperation in the run-up to COP27. Climate change and increasing greenhouse gas emissions negatively affects the health and well-being of people and countries around the world. As such, experts at the event agreed that it is important to learn from each other and continue a productive dialogue and exchange of professional experience in this important area. At the end of the conference, experts and participants thanked the organisers and highlighted how important it was to continue these discussions in order to help the transition of Turkmenistan to a green economy. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH


 17 : COP23_UK171
One year after the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on climate change, the Bonn Conference, which opens on 6 November in Germany, will be an opportunity for nations around the world to show their ambition for climate action and their determination to keep their promises. “While Paris represented one of those moments where the best of humanity achieved an agreement so important to our collective futures, Bonn represents how we will move forward to fulfill its promise”, said the Executive Secretary of United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Patricia Espinosa, on the margins of a ministerial meeting in Fiji on 17 October 2017 to prepare for the Bonn Conference of the Convention’s States Parties. “We are running out of time to turn things around. To do so, we must significantly increase our efforts to reduce emissions and our carbon footprints,” she added. The Paris Agreement, which was adopted by the 196 Parties to the UNFCCC in December 2015 in the French capital after which it is named, calls on countries to combat climate change by limiting the rise of global temperature below 2 degrees Celsius and strive not to exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius. A year ago, the Marrakech Climate Conference concluded with the Marrakech Action Proclamation, for our climate and sustainable development, in which the UNFCCC States Parties affirmed their “commitment” to the “full implementation” of the Paris Agreement. Today, 169 Parties have ratified the Agreement. At the Bonn Conference, informally known as COP 23 , countries will seek to move forward in completing the rule book for operationalizing the Paris Agreement. The Conference, which runs until 17 November, is chaired by Fiji, an island State particularly affected by the impacts of climate change. “Never has our work been more necessary. We see this with respect to the extreme weather events affecting almost every continent throughout the world,” said Ms. Espinosa. COP 23 President and Fiji Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama agrees. “We can no longer ignore this crisis. Whether it is fires in California, Portugal and Spain. Flooding in Nigeria, India and Bangladesh. The dramatic Arctic melt. Ice breaking off the continent of Antarctica. The recent hurricanes that devastated the Caribbean and the southern United States [. . . ] It’s hard to find any part of the world that is unaffected by these events”, he said at the ministerial meeting in Fiji. Bonn Conference an opportunity to boost climate risk management efforts In an op-ed published in October 2017, Ms. Espinosa, alongside the Administrator of the UN Development Programme (UNDP), Achim Steiner, and the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Disaster Risk Reduction, Robert Glasser, said the Bonn Conference “provides an opportunity to not only accelerate emission reductions but also boost the serious work of ensuring that the management of climate risk is integrated into disaster risk management as a whole.” A week before the opening of the Bonn Conference, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) announced that the levels of carbon dioxide (C02) surged at
“record-breaking speed” to new highs in 2016. The Bonn Conference will feature a series of meetings and events, including the high-level segment, on 15 November and 16 November, attended by Heads of State and Government, Ministers, and UN Secretary-General Ant’f3nio Guterres. Mr. Guterres has invited leaders to consider championing six high-impact areas at a special Climate Summit in 2019. These areas are investment in clean technology, maturing carbon pricing, enabling the energy transition, risk mitigation and building resilience, augmenting the contribution of sub-national actors and business and mobilizing climate finance. “Increasing ambition is the only way to keep the global temperature rise well below 2 degrees Celsius this century, and as close to 1.5 degree as possible. By focusing on these sectors, we can substantially reduce the gap between where we are and where we need to be,” said UN Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed, at the pre-COP meeting in Fiji. Among the side events scheduled at COP 23 , several will be organized under the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action to show how cities, regions, private sector companies and investors are trying to implement the Paris Agreement in the areas of energy, water, agriculture, oceans and coastal areas, human settlements, transportation, industry, and forests. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))


 18 : COP26_UK333
Hollywood iconLeonardo DiCaprioshowed up in Maryhill last night to attend a COP26 fringe event. The Wolf of Wall Street actor participated at the event held at The Engine Works on Lochburn Road off Maryhill Road. The venue shared a photo on theirInstagramaccount of the Oscar winner in the former warehouse alongside Emmy-nominated writer/producer Paul Goodenough, founder of charity organisation Rewriting Extinction. Watch as Greta Thunberg leads sweary sing-song in Glasgow park during COP26 climate change summit LD He shared the photo on his own account with the actor, star of movies such as Inception, Titanic and The Revenant, along with the caption: “What a hero”. Leo is clutching a book called ‘The Most Important Comic Book on Earth: Stories to Save the World’ which is a ‘global collaboration for planetary change, bringing together a diverse team of 300 leading environmentalists, artists, authors, actors, filmmakers, musicians, and more to present over 120 stories to save the world’. DI Caprio has given no indication that he would be in Glasgow for the summit, except to have put # COP26 The historic Engine Works, a former steel plant designed by Sir Henry Royce of Rolls Royce, has been taken over by landmark sustainability event Goals House during the COP26 summit. Top news stories today As part of the takeover, events such as panel discussions, networking events fireside chats, bilateral meetings and dinners are being held at the venue, all geared towards climate action. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH


 19 : COP26_UK299
THE COP26 climate summit is due to end today, with negotiators scrambling to salvage a significant deal on reducing global carbon emissions. Cop26 president Alok Sharma yesterday warned “time is running out” in Glasgow for the 180 countries at the summit to agree to a deal. While the summit will officially end today, Boris Johnson indicated negotiations could stretch into the weekend as happened in previous years. China and the US, the globe’s two largest CO2 emitters, on Wednesday agreed to team up to phase out fossil fuels in an unexpected deal. Pundits have said the deal provides hope that China could come to the table and agree to a deal to strengthen commitments made in the 2015 Paris Climate Accord. Sharma said proposals over reducing fossil fuel subsidies and accelerating reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are still crucial stumbling blocks. “Whilst we have made progress we are not there yet on the most critical issues. There is still a lot more work to be done - time is running out,” he said. “As I speak my ministerial facilitators and negotiators are rolling up their sleeves and working hard to find solutions to some of the most intractable issues.” The draft text of the Cop26 deal notes “with serious concern” that existing global agreements are insufficient to keep global warming to 1.5 degrees. The draft, which sets out what negotiators hope will be the outcome of Cop26 , asks countries to “revisit and strengthen the 2030 targets in their nationally determined contributions, as necessary to align with the Paris Agreement temperature goal by the end of 2022”. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH


 20 : COP22_UK100
THE United Nations came to Cardiff last week when students from across Wales took part in a mock United Nations conference on climate change. Students from across the country joined the debate and represented countries such as Brazil, USA, the Philippines and Saudi Arabia. The conference, run annually by Size of Wales in partnership with Welsh Centre for International Affairs, gives young people an opportunity to discuss the issue of climate change from the perspective of world leaders. Topics discussed ranged from clean energy, protecting rainforests, disaster management and how to finance these. “The conference encourages young people to be more engaged with climate change and political issues” said Janie Pridham, education officer at Size of Wales. “It also helps them develop understanding of other nations and cultures and to consider the responsibility of Wales, both locally and globally.” She added: “The standard of debate was extremely high this year.”It was wonderful to see the students take on their roles in such a realistic way. “Some delegates were quoting Trump and there was even a smear campaign between countries.” The aim of the day was for delegates to agree an international resolution on the issue of climate change, similar to the UN climate change COP22 talks that were held in Marrakesh in November. This year Sophie Howe, the Future Generations Commissioner, joined the event, acting as the secretary general and presiding over teams of three pupils representing 20 countries and organisations. “The bright, engaged young people I met today not only understand the critical point we have reached in terms of tackling climate change but understand that it is they who will be experiencing the positive or negative impact of our actions today.” the Commissioner said. “If we continue to give them a voice and an opportunity to influence, it gives me hope that there is a better future for everyone in Wales and that we will be a nation that makes a positive contribution to global wellbeing.” Size of Wales is a unique initiative which is helping to protect an area of rainforest twice the size of Wales as part of a national response to climate change. MOCKCOP is a highlight in its education programme, which also offers free workshops and assemblies to schools across Wales. The event was sponsored by Jenny Rathbone AM.


 21 : COP21_UK230
Click here for full-size image epa05049299 Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic (L-R), Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, and Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi arrive for the family photo during the COP21 , United Nations Climate Change Conference , in Le Bourget, outside Paris, France, 30 November 2015. The 21st Conference of the Parties ( COP21 ) is held in Paris from 30 November to 11 December aimed at reaching an international agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions and curtail climate change. EPA/MARTIN BUREAU / POOL MAXPPP OUT IMAGE ID: EPALIVE926926 HYPERLINK Subject to copyright. Click here for information regarding redistribution of this image.


 22 : COP26_UK6
A pledge made at HYPERLINK Cop26 to restore vital coastal regions with mangroves in the battle against global warming are now under way, it has just been confirmed. India will be the first of 10 Commonwealth countries who have joined the project that is being viewed as a significant move to replant the “forests of the sea”. The news was given by Shekhar Mehta, the world president of Rotary International, during a four-day visit to London which included attending meetings at the House of Commons, the House of Lords and with the Lord Mayor of London. In a wide-ranging interview with journalist and broadcaster Mihir Bose, Mr Mehta told how he had met with leaders of many of the countries that were represented at a special forum on the mangroves project brought together at Cop26 by Rotary International and Baroness Scotland, the Secretary General of the Commonwealth. Mr Mehta said he had been convinced of the crucial importance of mangroves by personal experience of the devastation from the 2004 tsunami. After the Cop26 pledge he had found the leaders of those countries eager to be a part of the Rotary International/Commonwealth project. He said he would tell the climate change doubters: “Where there is not supposed to be rain, there is flooding, when there is supposed to be rain, there are droughts. I would take him to one of the places where there is deforestation. This is not how the world was created.” At Cop26 The first scheme is beginning in Kolkata (Calcutta). He had support from the other countries and was talking with them about when their projects would begin. He said he would hope to bring more into the project Dr Nicholas Hardman Mountford, Head of Oceans and Natural Resources at the Commonwealth Secretariat, said: “The Commonwealth is home to over a third of the world’s mangroves and they provide essential coastal protection, food security and livelihoods for millions, as well as helping mitigate climate change through their highly efficient capturing of CO2 from the atmosphere.”This is why in 2018, Sri Lanka stepped forward to champion a Commonwealth Blue Charter action group on mangroves that is bringing Commonwealth countries together to share knowledge and best practices in mangrove restoration and management. We are delighted to be partnering with Rotary International through the Blue Charter to take forward local mangrove projects across our Commonwealth.” Classification Language: ~ENGLISH


 23 : COP21_UK37
November 24, 2015 More than half a billion children live in areas with extremely high flood occurrence and 160 million in high drought severity zones, leaving them highly exposed to the impacts of climate change, the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) said in a report released ahead of the 21st United Nations climate change conference , known as COP21 . According to the agency, of the 530 million children in the flood-prone zones, some 300 million live in countries where more than half the population lives in poverty - on less than $ 3.10 a day. Of those living in high drought severity areas, 50 million are in countries where more than half the population lives in poverty. “The sheer numbers underline the urgency of acting now,” said UNICEF Executive Director Anthony Lake, in a press release. “Today’s children are the least responsible for climate change, but they, and their children, are the ones who will live with its consequences. And, as is so often the case, disadvantaged communities face the gravest threat,” he continued. Climate change means more droughts, floods, heatwaves and other severe weather conditions. UNICEF is underlining that these events can cause death and devastation, and can also contribute to the increased spread of major killers of children, such as malnutrition, malaria and diarrhoea. This can reportedly create a vicious circle according to the agency - a child deprived of adequate water and sanitation before a crisis will be more affected by a flood, drought, or severe storm, less likely to recover quickly, and at even greater risk when faced with a subsequent crisis. The report, Unless we act now: The impact of climate change on children, finds that the vast majority of the children living in areas at extremely high risk of floods are in Asia, and the majority of those in areas at risk of drought are in Africa. Meanwhile, world leaders gathering in Paris for COP21 - held from November 30 to December 11 - will seek to reach agreement on cutting greenhouse gas emissions, which most experts say is critical to limiting potentially catastrophic rises in temperature. “We know what has to be done to prevent the devastation climate change can inflict. Failing to act would be unconscionable,” said Mr. Lake. “We owe it to our children - and to the planet - to make the right decisions at COP21 .”


 24 : COP26_UK262
A REDDITCH woman who carries out crucial experiments on trees to help in the fight against climate change has shared her vital work at COP26 . The 28-year-old spends up to 14 hours day among the treetops at a unique giant outdoor forest-scale experiment in Staffordshire, where she measures the leaf responses to changes in the environmental conditions such as light, temperature and humidity. Her work is part of a Free Air Carbon Enrichment Experiment, where scientists expose a mature oak forest to CO2 levels expected in 2050. The data collected by Anna is crucial to help scientists understand how much carbon trees and forests can store in future predicted climate scenarios. The former South Bromsgrove High School pupil won a competition to showcase her work at the COP26 in Glasgow, which she described as an E2incredible experienceE2. As well as teaming up with an artist and filmmaker to produce an art and science exhibition, Anna also got the chance to present her work as part of the UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) exhibit. Now back from Glasgow, Anna said: E2As a scientist we spend days, weeks and years locked away experimenting and researching which can be quite isolating. So to be able to share our findings and work together on the next generation of science is really important. E2Ultimately the work of scientists is to collect the data and inform people of results, this then feeds into government decisions and policy-making at those much higher levels. “I am hoping that COP26 will provide the momentum needed to create change for both now and our future. We need to work together at the global scale for decarbonisation to finally begin and I think COP26 will both enable and encourage this.E2 Classification Language: ~ENGLISH


 25 : COP23_UK79
A POPULAR holiday destination for Britons could be gone by the end of the century as it continues to sink due to rising sea levels, as world leaders are called to act at the COP23 conference. Getty The Maldives is rapidly sinking and could be gone in the next 80 years The Pacific Islands contain some of the famous idyllic holiday destinations chosen by Britons for sun and luxury,~ With sea levels rising dramatically in the past few decades, the islands will suffer the most as they eventually become entirely submerged. Tuvalu could be uninhabitable by 2050, with some islands such as Kiribati being completely gone by 2100. The Pacific island nations have urged leaders around the world to act after the COP23 conference in Germany discussed climate change and implementing the 2015 Paris agreement on global warming. The COP23 The Maldives is a famous destination for honeymooners and families, and this is also at risk of completely disappearing. With the lowest elevation in the world and just an average height of four feet above sea level, this too could be gone in the next century. The Solomon Islands have also been affected, with five of them already having completely sunk. New Zealand has become the first nation to create a new visa category for people who live on the islands, and are a product of island displacement. Getty Pacific Islands has warned that many islands are sinking, threatening the homes of many Professor Tim Flannery, a climate change expert at La Trobe University, told news.com.au: “It’s very concerning times, particularly if you live in a small island nation.”Many of those nations are already making agreements to deal with the problem as it develops.” He explained further: “As sea water rises it starts to penetrate the freshwater on the land, that’s the most immediate threat for a lot of the island.”Beach and coastal erosion and flooding is another threat. With these two factors it’s entirely possible within the next 30 years some islands could be rendered uninhabitable.” Getty The Maldives is a popular destination for honeymooners, but may not be around in the next decade They aren’t the only tourist destinations that could disappear within 50 years.~ Rising sea levels are also occurring due to glaciers melting as the planet warms up. The famous Columbia Glacier in Alaska is at risk due to the speed in which it is melting. Related articles UK weather: 2017 could be one of top three HOTTEST years ever recorded Great Barrier Reef DYING: Corals among 62 natural wonders under threat Earth under THREAT: Humans must do THIS to save the planet


 26 : COP25_UK2
MADRID, Spain – What: Africa Day When: 10 December 2019 Where: Room 3, Hall 4 at IFEMA Conference Centre, Madrid Time: 18:30 to 20:00 Who: Jointly organized by the African Union Commission, African Development Bank (AfDB.org), and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa Officials, experts, activists and journalists are invited to take part and cover the Africa Day at the COP25 conference in Madrid on 10 December 2019, in room 3 at the IFEMA Conference Centre. During this event, leaders will provide an update of the global commitments made at the world’s leading climate change meeting. Africa Day marks Africa’s presence and participation at the various United Nations Climate Change Conference (UNFCCC) sessions since COP 17. Africa Day provides a platform for the continent’s decision makers and other stakeholders to engage in a dialogue that informs the region’s course of action around climate change. The discussions will touch on effective means of implementation (finance, capacity building, and technology development and transfer) of the Paris Agreement. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). Media Contacts: African Union Esther Azaa Tankou Head of Information Division Directorate of Information and Communication African Union Commission Email: HYPERLINK mailto:YambouE@africa-union.org YambouE@africa-union.org African Development Bank Gershwin Wanneburg Communication and External Relations Department African Development Bank Email: HYPERLINK mailto:g.wanneburg@afdb.org g.wanneburg@afdb.org Pan-African Parliament Ntsiuoa Sekete Senior Communications and Media Officer Pan-African Parliament Email: HYPERLINK mailto:ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))


 27 : COP23_UK11
November 24, 2017 Education International joins the international trade union movement in deeply lamenting the fact that the 23rd United Nations climate change conference did not keep its promises despite the urgent climate emergency. At the 23rd Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Agreement on Climate Change
( COP23 ) held in Bonn from 6-17 November, representatives from almost 200 countries were finally unable to make concrete progress on the rules for implementing the Paris Agreement against Global Warming. No agreement was reached on the follow-up of the actions to be taken by the countries, nor on the financial aid promised by the rich countries, all of which are commitments that are intended to be implemented from 2020 onwards. There was nevertheless agreement to hold a dialogue that will run throughout 2018 for the purpose of drawing up an overview of greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, as no substantive progress was made, the crucial decisions were postponed to the COP24 which will take place in Katowice, in Poland, in December 2018. The unions’ idea of a fair transition is gaining support The COP23 was nevertheless an opportunity for the trade union movement to continue its advocacy for “fair transition” policies, which are gaining increasing support from the stakeholders. The recognition of the importance of a social pact promoting the transition to low-carbon economies foster, according to the International Trade Union Confederation (CSI), great optimism for the future of millions of workers and their communities. This is why the CSI is already calling for a “Katowice” action plan for a fair transition. For Education International (EI), the adoption of such an action plan is an excellent opportunity for highlighting education’s crucial role in combating climate change. The Education Day: strengthening our partnerships on climate change education For several years now, the Conference’s organisers have had the bright idea of organising a thematic day devoted to education, giving rise to a host of activities dealing with climate change education (CCE), including conferences, seminars, performances and exhibitions. This year, EI was able to speak as a guest organisation at the “Dreaming big in Climate Education” event organised by various United Nations agencies. The event addressed partnerships aimed at initiating the necessary changes in attitudes and actions to be taken in the face of the risks arising from climate change. At the event, EI representative Dennis Sinyolo argued that, faced with the low level of penetration of CCE in the curricula of the various countries, the EI member organisations must absolutely join forces in order to compel governments to observe their commitments under the Paris Agreement. Teachers must also have access to all the necessary support and training order to become engaged and effective stakeholders in combating climate change. For its part, EI will mobilise its affiliates around this crucial issue for our collective future.


 28 : COP25_UK18
By BBC Monitoring Chilean President Sebastian Pinera’s 24 September speech to the United Nations General Assembly focussing on the environment earned applause from media in Chile, but some pundits questioned his motives and track record on green issues. “Sebastian Pinera showed off his greenest side,” news website El Mostrador reported on 24 September, noting that 16 of Pinera’s 21 minutes of podium time at the UN were dedicated to the environment. Leading daily El Mercurio was impressed by Pinera’s use of the topic to show his leadership in global affairs, while one pundit noted that despite initial concerns over Chile’s ability to host the upcoming COP25 United Nations Climate Change Conference in December, the decision now seemed to be a positive one. Pinera’s critics, meanwhile, used the opportunity to question the president’s reported hesitance to sign up to the Escazu agreement, an environmental deal agreed among several other South American states. While in New York, Pinera was awarded the Atlantic Council’s Global Citizen Prize for his efforts to mitigate climate change, raising eyebrows among environmentalists who remain unconvinced of his track record. Pinera at UN: style or substance? El Mercurio dedicated its 25 September editorial to dissecting Pinera’s visit to the United Nations, saying, “President Pinera has exhibited his international leadership on one of the greatest global priorities, the fight against climate change and global warming”. Others wondered whether he was putting his personal image ahead of the country’s needs, however. Journalist Juan Ignacio Brito wrote in a 26 September op-ed on news website El Libero: “The president dedicates time and energy to participating in summits and global meetings on climate change, [which are] filled more with glamour than concrete results”. He also asked whether it was “a distraction to breathe life into an unpopular president?” “Is there anything substantial at stake for Chile?” he added. Radio Bio Bio presenter Tomas Mosciatti was positive about the president’s recent performance on the world stage. During a broadcast on 23 September, he said of Pinera, “he had a success from an international point of view”. The pundit tempered his praise by saying, “we have to see how COP25 goes, what agreements are reached”, but he added, “for the moment, a success”. Countdown to COP25 While Chile’s decision to host the COP25 conference appeared to be winning over large sections of the media, a renewed government focus on climate change brought pending environmental issues to the fore. In a 25 September article published online, newspaper La Tercera noted, “there are 68 days left until that event and there are various environmental experts who see several points that Sebastian Pinera, in their judgement, must solve before the meeting.” The article quoted Universidad de Chile academic Valentina Duran, who said it was “incoherent” that the president had not yet signed up to the Escazu agreement. According to the report, the Escazu issue was seen as the “main problem that Chile will face before COP25”, but other key outstanding topics included finalising pending environmental legislation and details of how Chile plans to clean up areas affected by industrial pollution. El Mostrador, meanwhile, reported on 24 September, “Pinera’s ambiguity on Escazu threatens to eclipse his moment of fame on the environment”. A deserved accolade? Coverage of Pinera’s Global Citizen Award suggested some in Chile remained dubious about the president’s green credentials. CNN Chile reported on 25 September that Rodrigo Mundaca, secretary general of the Modatima environmental movement, said it was a “completely undeserved prize”. Although Greenpeace’s executive director Jennifer Morgan said Pinera did not yet deserve the award, she added that “he has an enormous opportunity”. While environmentalists preferred to wait and see whether the president commited to his promises, some analysts suggested he would face opposition from his political partners at home if he did so. In a 26 September report by news website Emol, political scientist Mauricio Morales was quoted as saying, “for the coalition that backs the president, economic growth is much more important than protecting the environment.” “That is why the president’s great plan of establishing himself as the green emblem of the world and Latin America is going to collide with reality,” Morales added. Source: BBC Monitoring in Spanish 1802 gmt 26 Sep 19


 29 : COP25_UK55
EU countries have agreed the EU position for the UN climate conference in Santiago de Chile ( COP25 ). The Council today adopted conclusions on EU preparations for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) meetings in Santiago de Chile (2-13 December 2019). The UN Climate Action Summit last week helped bring the issue of climate change to political attention and public scrutiny. The Council stresses that it is now even more important both to work hard to make COP25 a success and deliver concrete results. Infographic - Climate change: The EU is delivering on the Paris Agreement Climate change: The EU is delivering on the Paris AgreementSee full infographic The EU’s priorities for the upcoming negotiations in Santiago include: completing the implementation guidelines for the voluntary cooperation mechanism of the Paris Agreement (article 6), completing the second review of the Warsaw International Mechanism for loss and damage, completing the review of the Lima work programme on gender, and advancing technical work on the arrangements under the Enhanced Transparency Framework. The conclusions outline the EU’s position on these objectives, and deliver a strong political message on the urgent need for enhanced global action, the EU’s firm commitment to the multilateral process and its level of ambition. The Council expresses its deep concern at the increasing impact of climate change on the deterioration of global biodiversity and the world’s water resources and ecosystems, and at UN reports confirming that Nationally Determined Contributions submitted by parties and current greenhouse gas emission (GHG) trajectories fall far short of what is required to achieve the long-term goals of the Paris Agreement. It recognises the strong calls by civil society and citizens, especially youth, for enhanced action and ambition. The Council reiterates the importance of stepping up global climate action. It highlights that the EU continues to successfully decouple its economic growth from its emissions - from 1990 to 2017 the EU’s economy grew by 58%, while total GHG emissions decreased by 22%. The EU and its member states are therefore set to overachieve the goal of a 20% GHG reduction domestically by 2020 with existing policies under the EU 2020 climate and energy package. In 2014 the EU committed itself to reducing domestic GHG emissions by at least 40% by 2030, compared with 1990 levels, as its contribution to the Paris Agreement. The EU is the first major economy in the world to take the lead in the green transition and to show the way on implementation of the Paris Agreement by already having in place an ambitious, binding, legislative framework to deliver on its commitment. The EU 2030 renewable energy target has been set at at least 32% and energy efficiency target at at least 32.5%, supported by a reliable governance system. These targets lead to greater greenhouse gas emission reductions than previously foreseen. The EU is currently discussing how to achieve climate neutrality. The Council highlights the importance of the broad, inclusive and extensive societal debate across the EU and its member states. In its conclusions, the Council looks forward to the European Council finalising its guidance on the EU’s climate neutral vision before the end of 2019 with a view to the adoption and submission of the EU’s long-term strategy to the UNFCCC in early 2020. It calls also on other parties to the Paris Agreement to submit their long-term strategies in line with the long-term goals of the Paris Agreement by 2020. Council conclusions on the EU position for COP25 Visit the meeting page Press contacts Katharina Pausch-Homble +32 2 281 62 63 +32 470 88 42 96 [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk


 30 : COP24_UK2
Climate resilience will turn out to be one of the key challenges for the global energy sector, says Kamia Handayani. Kamia, who is a PhD researcher in climate change mitigation and adaptation in the power sector, presented her views last week at the United Nations Climate Change Conference COP24 in Katowice, Poland. ‘Developing countries like Indonesia face challenges to provide universal and reliable electricity access throughout the country’, Kamia says. ‘At the same time, they also pledge to reduce their carbon emissions under the Paris Agreement. On top of the vital electrification and climate change mitigation goals, the Indonesian power sector has already been affected by severe weather and changes in climate variables. Widespread power cuts due to severe weathers commonly occur in the country. Therefore, future development of the power sector in Indonesia should focus on both shifting to the low-carbon and also to the climate-resilient power grid.’ Kamia took part in an expert session in the Indonesian Pavilion at the Conference of the Parties (COP), in a panel including Dutch climate envoy Marcel Beukeboom and various young experts, reflecting on the challenges for young professionals in tackling climate change. She has been an PhD candidate at the University of Twente since 2016, her research is funded by the Indonesian Endowment Fund for Education (LPDP). She writes regular articles for the Jakarta Post. Various UT researchers attended the COP24 conference, as the University of Twente is one of the admitted observers for the conference. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk


 31 : COP21_UK305
India, one of the world’ s largest coal users, will cut back on its investments in the fuel if the new climate deal due to be struck next week in Paris delivers more money to help it shift to cleaner sources of energy such as solar power, a senior negotiator said on Wednesday. We’ ve made it very clear that solar and wind is our first commitment, said Ajay Mathur, director general of India’ s Bureau of Energy Efficiency, at the Paris talks, HYPERLINK known as COP21 . Hydro, nuclear, all of these non-carbon sources are what we will develop to the largest extent we can, he told reporters. But it has to be affordable. He was speaking as campaigners from a fossil fuel divestment movement said the number of investors shunning coal, gas and oil has surged ahead of the Paris conference. At least 500 institutions with more than $3.4tn in assets have pledged to avoid or cut holdings in fossil fuels, said activist groups 350.org and Divest-Invest. That represents a big jump from a year ago, when 181 institutions representing about $50bn in assets were committed to such a step, they said. A spate of city councils, banks, pension funds, churches and universities have pledged to cut back or shun coal investments this year. One of the most striking commitments came last month when Allianz, the German insurance group, said it would pull more than € 4bn ($4.3bn) from companies with coal businesses. Earlier this year, the Norwegian parliament decided the country’ s $857bn sovereign wealth fund should withdraw from any company in which coal represents more than 30 per cent of the business. Both moves came in the wake of a divestment campaign that began on US college campuses more than two years ago in an effort to make fossil fuel holdings as unpopular as tobacco or investments in apartheid-era South Africa. Churches and wealthy individuals with an interest in climate change then joined, including the heirs to the Rockefeller oil fortune. The momentum in this divestment campaign is accelerating day by day, Stephen Heintz, president of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, told journalists at the Paris climate conference on Wednesday. There is a moral imperative to save the planet and to do so we need to end the fossil fuel era now, he said. Benjamin Sporton, chief executive of the World Coal Association said that although the campaigners’ multi-trillion dollar headline figures seemed large, a lot of the institutions and funds with these assets did not currently have coal holdings and the amount of money actually being pulled out of coal was relatively small. While there are companies and funds saying they want to get out of coal, there are plenty of others that are remaining invested, he told the Financial Times. This was especially the case in South East Asia and in large countries such as India, where governments are planning to continue using coal for electricity. Mr Sporton said he hoped the Paris climate talks would help drive the use of technology that allows coal to be burnt more efficiently and cleanly, a chief aim of his members. Coal companies have borne the brunt of the divestment push because coal produces more carbon emissions when burnt than other fossil fuels such as natural gas. But it remains an abundant and cheap source of energy in many developing countries and is the biggest source of electricity globally, accounting for a 41 per cent share of the world’ s electricity, according to the International Energy Agency. That global share is expected to fall to just over 30 per cent by 2030, the agency says, as fast-growing renewable energy sources supply a larger proportion of electricity. However, divestments have not been the only feature of this year’ s assault on coal. Banks have made public their refusal to fund some coal investments. In Australia, where India’ s Adani group wants to build the country’ s largest proposed coal project, Standard Chartered has said it will no longer be involved in the increasingly controversial development. Banks including Deutsche and HSBC had already steered clear. And multilateral commitments to the coal industry have been reined in. Last month member states of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development agreed limits on export subsidies for coal-fired power stations, following unilateral initiatives to curb export credits by countries including the UK and US. But divestment has its critics. Anne Stausboll, chief executive of Calpers, the California state pension system, has called lobbying for divestment flawed and said it is more constructive to engage with companies where the fund invests. However California approved a divestment law in October. Calpers will evaluate divestment as outlined in the bill , the fund said. As of June it had $57m invested in 27 thermal coal companies. Listen to the HYPERLINK World Weekly podcast


 32 : COP22_UK68
The dust still hasn’t settled here in Marrakech from Donald Trump’s shockUS election victory, but attention at the UN climate summit is starting to turn towards how the rest of the world might soldier on without American leadership. Barack Obama can claim a great deal of credit for bringing the world together in support of the Paris Agreement to limit climate change at last year’s summit, and “Team America” has led from the front in climate action for 20 years. But the US President-elect has threatened to cancelthe Paris accord, scrap all American contributions to UN climate programmes and denounced the very concept of man-made climate change as a Chinese hoax. One theme emerging from the COP22 summit is the idea that shifting to a greener planet is not a matter of sinking money into an endless budget for “aid”, but a business opportunity. Read more Trump must not make
‘irrevocable choices’ on climate change says Kerry And if Mr Trump can’t be convinced of that, there is no shortage of other world powers willing to step into America’s shoes. The gloom in the wake of the Trump victory has focused on the US’s role as the world’s second-greatest polluter, responsible for 13 per cent of global emissions. But Chinese representatives here point out the “gigantic size” of its own emissions -Chinese real estate alone accounts for 8per cent of global emissions, similar to the total emissions of the EU. One part of China’s plan involves phasing out steel and cement emissions by 2050 - ascheme which, on its own, would cut as much pollution as the entire emissions of the UK (twice over). Riffing on Mr Trump’s own claims to deal with what he sees as the problem of Mexico, a representative of one Chinese NGO joked that China would be willing to cut the equivalent of all US emissions
-“particularly if President-elect Trump gets his way” -adding that “we would get the US to pay for it”. Read more Donald Trump means ‘game over for the planet’, claims Labour World economy to be $12 trillion smaller without climate change action China dismisses Donald Trump climate change ‘hoax’ claim Donald Trump will cause ‘global trauma’ if he imposes tariffs on China Hit US with carbon tax if it pulls out of climate pact, Sarkozy says Donald Trump is seeking quick ways out of the Paris climate agreement China sees the scope for international infrastructure projects and efficiency savings that climate action entails -and when it comes to reaping the benefits, the joke is on the US. Europe is also eyeing up the opportunities here, and the chance to look for a partner to the east instead of the west, particularly on a subnational level. At a side event organised by the China-Europe Forum, delegates discussed how the landscape of global climate action is shifting,and where the impetus for making a changenow falls. Michel Lebrun, the former president of the European Committee of the Regions and the man representing the EU at the China-Europe event, said it was up to local actors to step into the breach as Trump’s election highlighted the hazards of relying on heads of state for answers. “Local governments, business and civil society play a key role in the adaptation and mitigation process [of fighting climate change],” he said. The suggestion is that the major cities and regions of Europe -as the cradle of Western civilisation -can lead the way to a kind of climate enlightenment. “During this COP22 Others feel that it will fall to the world’s biggest businesses to pave the way on climate action, driven by both the dispassionate economic arguments behind green innovation and strong leadership that does not rely on public opinion for its authority. Dr Nathaniel Keohane, vice president of the Environmental Defence Fund
(EDF), named Walmart as an example of a huge company making voluntary, positive steps in this field thanks largely to the”personal interest” of its CEO, Carl Douglas McMillon. But not everyone believes there is a simple solution to the question of who will take over from the US if Mr Trump takes his country out of the global movement to stop climate change. In his keynote speech at the summit on Wednesday, Secretary of State John Kerry said the “overwhelming majority”of Americans know that climate change is happening, and that if the worldfails to act it would be a “moral failure, a betrayal of devastating consequences”. Avipsa Mahapatra, from the Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA) campaign group, says that is “one of the messages we can take away [from the Trump victory]. . . that it is not about any single country.” “Given there is very little time left if we want to stand a chance of staying below 2C [of warming] -and there is really no point in talking about 1.5C at this point
-it has to be about all stakeholders, all citizens, all countries giving it all their efforts,plus some more.”


 33 : COP24_UK261
Teesside could become a world leader in clean growth following a £3170million funding announcement to create a carbon “net-zero” hub of heavy industry. At the COP24 The region’s ambitions mirror those of the UK Government, to provide clean technology, tackle climate change and safeguard and create high-quality jobs by using hydrogen and innovative processes such as Carbon Capture, Utilisation and Storage (CCUS). The announcement came just a fortnight after it wasrevealed a world-first multibillion-pound energy projectwould be developed at the South Tees Development Corporation site inRedcar, backed by OG Climate Investments, a consortium of six of the world’s biggest energy giants. Branded the Clean Gas Project, it will be the world’s first gas-powered energy plant to fully deploy full-chain CCUS at scale, meaning CO from Teesside industry will be captured and then stored via pipelines under the North Sea. Two Teesside plants at centre of the CO2 shortage are back online Tees Valley Mayor Ben Houchen said: “My vision is for the Tees Valley to become the clean growth capital of the UK and we are in pole position to deliver on that.”We’ve got a commercial project ready to go, which other regions don’t have, we’ve got leading industry working together as part of a cluster, we’ve got our own significant plans under way and we are a key part of the UK’s Local Industrial Strategy. “Today’s announcement reaffirms Government’s clear commitment to our region and we expect a substantial amount of that funding to come our way. We will be grabbing this opportunity with both hands.” What exactly is carbon capture - and what does it mean for Teesside? Energy and Clean Growth Minister Claire Perrysaid: “Demonstrating climate action and growing the economy go hand in hand is key to building momentum behind global action on carbon.”The UK is a leader in both, cutting our emissions by more than 40% while growing our economy by two-thirds, but to sustain this track record we need to tackle emissions from energy intensive sectors and bring clean growth to our great industrial centres. “That’s why today I’m launching a mission to create the world’s first ‘net-zero’ carbon cluster by 2040 in the UK with up to £3170 million of new government funding.”This will help to develop the technologies of the future to transform industry around the world, ensuring the UK seizes the global economic opportunities of moving to greener, cleaner industry - a key part of our modern Industrial Strategy.” Tees Valley already produces more than half of the UK’s hydrogen, making it uniquely placed for the establishment of the UK’s first National Hydrogen Centre. Already working closely with MPI and TWI, a compelling case will be submitted to this fund to realise the region’s potential in the coming months. Mayor Houchen added: “I have met Claire Perry many times, pushing the case for our region as a hub for low-carbon industry and clean energy and I am delighted that Government has launched a mission that plays to our strengths.”It’s now up to us to present the case for this competition, which could be fantastic news for generations of jobs in our region. “We led the way for the Industrial Revolution and are now poised to lead the way in the clean energy revolution.”


 34 : COP22_UK357
Nuclear energy is an important pillar of a future energy system aimed at meeting the world’s growing energy needs and avoiding the worst effects of climate change, according to a new report published today by the International Energy Agency. The World Energy Outlook 2016 450 scenario, aimed at limiting an increase in global temperatures due to climate change to less than 2 degrees C, shows global nuclear generation output increasing by almost two and a half times by 2040, compared to the present day, from 2535 TWh to 6101 TWh. In this scenario low carbon energy sources dominate the generation mix. Hydro generates 20%, nuclear 18%, wind 18% and solar PV 9%. Fossil fuel generation declines sharply, with gas supplying 16%, coal 9% and oil 1%. The remaining 9% is supplied by a range of other low carbon sources. World Nuclear Association Director General, Agneta Rising said, ‘We must meet the world’s growing energy needs and protect the planet. We will need all low carbon energy options to work together to achieve this, and nuclear will make a major contribution, because it is scalable, reliable and competitive.’ The high efficiency and stable supplies produced by nuclear plants means they are able to generate more electricity from the same capacity of plant, in comparison to intermittent renewables. For example, under the 450 scenario nuclear and wind generate virtually the same amount of electricity, but nuclear does so with just 820 GW of installed capacity, while wind requires 2321 GW. Nuclear generation is a cost-competitive low-carbon generation option according to the IEA report. The cost per unit of electricity produced from wind or solar PV being 22-40% higher than that from nuclear generation, even without counting the additional costs of adapting the grid and providing the back-up generation required to compensate for their intermittent supply. The IEA’s report states that even further decarbonisation will be needed to meet the goal of the UNFCCC’s Paris Agreement, which aims to hold the global temperature increase well below 2 degrees C and to pursue a target of 1.5 degrees C. The nuclear industry’s Harmony goal aims for nuclear generation capacity to triple, with 1000 GW of new nuclear build by 2050. Agneta Rising will address the contribution of nuclear energy to mitigate against climate change in a press conference at the COP 22 climate change meeting in Marrakech on Thursday 17th November at 15:00. Contact: Tel:
+44 (0)20 7451 1520 [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk


 35 : COP23_UK301
A spokesman for the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy said: The UK is a world leader in clean energy, reducing emissions faster than any other G7 nation, and our competitive approach to renewable electricity projects has reduced costs for consumers and provides long-term certainty for electricity producers.The UK’s Clean Growth Strategy has innovation at the heart of our approach, with over £32.5 billion of Government investment in the UK from 2015 to 2021. The message we will be taking to this week's COP23 climate change summit in Bonn is that you don't have to choose between economic growth and carbon reduction.Industry and Government will continue to work together to deliver growth, build a thriving UK supply chain and seize commercial opportunities in the UK and abroad.”


 36 : COP22_UK113
Text of commentary headlined “China is an opportunity for Europe, not a threat” in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News Agency) on 1 February BRUSSELS, Feb. 1 (Xinhua) - A senior EU politician said recently that China represents an external threat to Europe, an accusation which is groundless as well as outrageous. As a matter of fact, China’s development provides an enormous opportunity for Europe and both sides benefit from strong and stable bilateral ties. The European Union is China’s biggest trading partner, and China is the EU’s second biggest, following a dramatic increase in trade in recent years. Data from Chinese customs show that bilateral trade reached 2.94 trillion yuan (423.34 billion US dollars) in the first 10 months of 2016, reaching a new high, and overcoming the global trade downturn. China’s rapid economic growth has served as an opportunity for the European Union’s own growth. With a fragile economy, the rising threat of protectionism and uncertainty in relations with other major world powers, Europe can benefit significantly from strong trade relations with China. China and Europe should also work closer together in global governance issues, with climate change as a primary example. China and the EU played key roles as brokers of the COP21 Climate Agreement in Paris, and were urged to work even more closely for COP22 in Marrakech. With the Paris Agreement having entered into force, China and the EU will need to trust each other more than ever to help ensure that these critical measures are being implemented fully and correctly. Global security is also a core principle of China-EU relations, with Chinese President Xi Jinping calling for a community of shared future, and China showing its commitment to this vision through its involvement in the Iran nuclear talks, mediation for national reconciliation in South Sudan, and the facilitation of peace talks between the Afghan government and the Taleban, among others. In all global issues, China is a partner to the European Union, a sign of the friendship and mutual trust built over the 42 years since diplomatic relations were formally established in 1975. Strong bilateral ties need these twin guarantees to ensure that different political systems and different cultures can still find common ground. International relations are not a zero-sum game, as China has repeatedly shown in its partnerships with Europe. Through strong bilateral ties, China seeks a relationship with the European Union that promotes win-win development and mutually benefiting cooperation. Senior European politicians should be cautious about the statements they make, and safeguard the long-term and steady development of China-EU relations. Biased views will do no good for such development. Source: Xinhua news agency in English 2252 gmt 1 Feb 17


 37 : COP24_UK213
What will happen if humanity fails to limit global warming to 1.5-degreeC? In the 2015 Paris Agreement, nations pledged to keep warming ‘well below’ 2-degreeC (compared to pre-industrial levels) this century, and promised efforts to keep it under 1.5-degreeC. But this target is getting ‘harder and harder to meet’, according to Professor Richard Betts, of the University of Exeter and the Met Office. Professor Betts will speak at the COP24 climate conference in Poland on Wednesday, alongside Prof John Schellnhuber, founding director of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, who proposed the original 2-degreeC ‘guardrail’ in 1995. ‘Global emissions of greenhouse gases are still rising, and the world’s countries’ current pledges of emissions reductions are not enough to limit warming to 1.5-degreeC,’ Professor Betts said. ‘Therefore it is ever more important that we understand consequences of missing the target and the risks that climate change above 1.5-degreeC will bring.’ Professor Betts led the HELIX project, an international research programme examining the possible impacts of various levels of global warming. The project’s findings suggest: At 4-degreeC, the extra number of people flooded could be around 157 million per year. Some areas may see an increased risk of drought. Southern Europe, the Mediterranean and southern Africa are among the places expected to become drier overall. At 2-degreeC warming, 4-13% of developing countries were calculated as having a higher vulnerability to food insecurity than seen in any country in the world under the current climate. At 4-degreeC, unprecedented levels of food insecurity were calculated in one tenth - one third of developing countries. Discussions at Wednesday’s event will focus on heat stress, water resources, river flooding and coastal flooding. Dr Katy Richardson from the Met Office will discuss the implications for vulnerability to food insecurity. Prof Schellnhuber will discuss the risks of tipping points in the climate system, including a perspective on the ‘Hothouse Earth’ concept that was proposed in a widely-publicised paper earlier this year. The event is from 11.30 - 13.00 in the Katowice conference centre, Area G, Room 6 and is open to all conference attendees. You can watch a live broadcast of the event here and follow Helix Climate on Twitter at @helixclimate At 4-degreeC, unprecedented levels of food insecurity were calculated in one tenth - one third of developing countries. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk


 38 : COP23_UK23
‘Partnerships for Implementation of the Paris Agreement: Africa’s Response.’ On Wednesday, 15 November 2017, COP23 will celebrate Africa Day, a joint initiative of the African Development Bank (AfDB), the African Union Commission (AUC), the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) and the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). Two years after the Paris Agreement was signed at COP21, Africa continues to consolidate its efforts, focusing particularly on partnerships to ensure that developed countries meet their responsibilities and commitments in terms of funding, and encouraging African nations to pursue a low-carbon development path and maintain their nationally determined contributions. All of this is in line with the roadmap for the African Union’s Agenda 2063, the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals and the African Development Bank’s High 5s. The theme of this year’s Africa Day is therefore: ‘Partnerships to Implement the Paris Agreement: Africa’s Response’. The programme will focus on funding, capacity-building, development and technology transfer. Heads of state, high-level ministerial discussions There are a number of highlights throughout Africa Day, which will be opened at 11:30 by His Excellency, Alpha Conde, President of Guinea and Chairperson of the African Union; His Excellency, Denis Sassou Nguesso, President of the Republic of Congo and President of the Climate Commission of the Congo Basin; His Excellency, Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of Gabon and Coordinator of the Committee of African Heads of State and Government on Climate Change (CAHOSCC); and His Excellency Moussa Faki Mahamat, Chairperson of the African Union Commission; A ministerial debate, moderated by Honorable Pacome Moubelet-Boubeya, the Gabonese Minister of Forest, Sea and Environment and President of the African Ministerial Conference on the Environment (AMCEN), will mark the start of the discussions, followed by a question and answer session. Official launch of the Africa NDC Hub The last segment of the Africa Day is an expert panel discussion on climate change to discuss various technical themes. Africa played a decisive role in the signing of the Paris Agreement. It has so far been ratified by 168 states and the European Union, and 43 of these states are in Africa - representing more than 78% of African nations. This demonstrates the continent’s level of commitment and awareness of the need to fight against climate change. Although at COP21 in Paris, developed countries reiterated their pledge to provide 100 billion USD in climate funding every year until 2020, Africa has received less than 4% of these funds. There is still a long way to go! The Africa Day organised jointly by the AfDB, AUC, ECA and NEPAD at the request of African Heads of State, held at every COP since COP17 in Durban. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk


 39 : COP24_UK321
KIRKLEES Council has slid further down the national recycling ranks. The latest figures show just 27% of our household waste is recycled, down from 30% in 2016/17. The level - 17% below the national average and 21% worse than neighbouring Calderdale - has seen Kirklees become the 25th worst borough at recycling out of about 350 across the country. Council chiefs have said the national figures don’t reflect the true reality of their recycling efforts. Most waste in Kirklees is burnt in the incinerator at Hillhouse, which turns rubbish into electricity. The council said it also recycled waste from street cleansing and the incinerator ash, which wasn’t reflected in the national figures. But Kirklees Green party leader, Clr Andrew Cooper, said it was debatable if that was any better than burying it as it was polluting the atmosphere. Speaking from the COP24 UN climate change summit in Poland, he said: “We need to look at whether we can collaborate with another council to improve our recycling.”Calderdale is certainly one authority that is doing it a lot better. “But this is the crazy thing - there’s no common method of recycling across the different councils.”It doesn’t make sense. Some councils have got a lot more money than others and are able to spend more on it. “We have to make a stronger case to national government and embarrass them on the very poor funding we get compared to the leafy shires.”But we’ve also got to look at how much waste we create. “The incinerator relies on waste being created when really we want to be reducing the amount of rubbish in society as a whole.”Burying it in the ground or burning it into the air, neither is a positive thing. “If we are going to burn it we need to be making use of the heat that’s created.”I know there are plans to do that. “We also need our recycling to happen locally rather than being shipped half way around the world.”If we use local producers and local recyclers, we’ll have less to recycle.” Clr Cooper said cut backs on awareness campaigns on what can and can’t be recycled were also hurting poorer authorities such as Kirklees. Kirklees Council was said to have one of the cheapest waste and recycling contracts in the country, which has saved taxpayers millions. The contract with French owned Suez, formerly Sita, is due to end soon and council officials are currently planning whether to renew it or find a new provider. Karl Battersby, Strategic Director, Economy and Infrastructure, Kirklees Council said: “With our long-established waste contract coming to an end, we have an opportunity to explore improved services alongside and in sympathy with national strategy.”This will allow us to renew our efforts to improve recycling rates across the borough. “Incineration is currently our primary facility for waste treatment, allowing the Council to meet the proximity principle of managing waste locally where practical.”We are looking forward to the publication of the National Resource and Waste Strategy, which was originally due in 2016/17. This national strategy will help us plan for any changes to statutory obligations as a local authority.” The two worst councils for recycling last year were London’s richest and poorest boroughs - Newham and Westminster at 14.1% and 18.8% respectively. David Palmer-Jones, chief executive, Suez Recycling and Recovery UK, said the decline in recycling rates in 2017/18 coincided with the introduction of major recycling import restrictions by China at the start of 2018. He said:
“Today’s annual recycling statistics unfortunately continue to show that the country remains in the recycling doldrums, after more than a decade of hard-won behavioural change.” “The lack of progress is a reflection of the challenges facing the global recycling market, cuts to consumer communication and perhaps consumer apathy, and the majority of domestic political activity being focused on other areas in recent years.”The imminent resources and waste strategy from Defra offers an opportunity for the nation to make an environmental step change, but is not going to be an immediate panacea to the current dwindling performance. “We do, however, believe that Defra’s plan will deliver a positive direction for businesses, consumers and the environment.”


 40 : COP25_UK241
BARRING any unprecedentedly large political bust-ups, the biggest international event that the UK has ever held will come to Glasgow in November. The United Nations Climate Change Conference , or COP26 as it is more commonly known, will not only be huge it could be of vital historic significance and if so will be referred to, not just for years, but for decades to come. It is an event that potentially provides massive opportunities for the city and for Scotland as a whole and for its business community. It is a chance for businesses here to be at the forefront of national and international efforts to combat climate change. We tease out various aspects of its potential significance in our Science and Technology Review (page 33) and in our report on the Conferences, Events and Hotels sector (page 55). Given the potential for much advancement in protecting our planet, in our scientific advancement and in our business tourism and hospitality sectors it is to be strongly hoped that our politicians will see sense and cooperate across UK Government, Scottish Government and city council. I would suspect that if that is not the case then there would be a very high price to be paid at the ballot box. It is, of course, far from the only area where events from the political world are impacting on our businesses and our ability to trade and earn. The effects of our departure from the European Union are beginning to be felt more strongly in many different industrial sectors and areas. We look at some of the nitty gritty effects of the coming changes in areas like construction, life sciences, agriculture and fisheries and in employment and the workplace more generally. (Brexit Begins page 27). As speakers at our Top500 Business Breakfast made clear (page 102) Brexit is far from done - in truth there is still a hell of a long way to go (I believe I use the words advisedly). But at least the forward motion on Brexit - whether it proved very much in the wrong direction or not - has ended part of the uncertainty. The General Election result gave a clear outcome - whether you like it politically or not - and that did give a boost to the number of transactions at the tale end of the year. In fact as we report in our quarterly review of Deals (page 65) deal numbers finish at an all-time high. There is much to pore over in the figures for that last quarter of 2019. The end of the political deadlock has sparked a rise in optimism in the construction sector, although as we report (page 45), that is a sentiment that is running ahead of recovery. Optimism is also something that seems to be strongly exhibited by backers of the Ayrshire Growth Deal - we report on its progress one year on (page 81). Much of the ambition - and a possible 4,000 out of a hoped for 7,000 jobs boost - focuses on aerospace and space. There has been quite a lot of comment about Prestwick Airport and its lack of flights but that, the space around it and its geography does actually provide a platform on which growth in the sector in Scotland can be built. It is probably not very widely known that there are already 4,000 jobs in aerospace in the Prestwick area - it is a cluster which can be further developed. While the size of aerospace may not be widely known even less so is the scale of the maritime sector in Scotland. People currently think only of shipbuilding and ferries in particular but as we report (page 77) it is truly a hidden jewel of the Scottish economy. £6 Professor John Curtice has estimated that we have come 15 per cent of the way towards Brexit in three years with 85 per cent to go by the end of this year

