 1 : COP22_UK342
Ahead of the 22nd Conference of the Parties ( COP 22 These changes have been incorporated into the Group’ s sector policies on Mining and Coal-Fuelled Power Plants. The sector policies set out the framework governing the financial services Societe Generale offers in the business sectors in which it operates. The bank will also scale back its outstanding loans to the coal industry, with a goal of reducing the proportion of coal-fuelled share in power production financed by the bank to 19% by 2020, in line with the International Energy Agency’ s 2-degree scenario. The shift in the energy mix will also result from increased financing for renewable energies. Societe Generale is continuing to ramp up project financing in this sector. In 2015, it announced it was doubling project financing in the renewable energy sector, with a €10 billion of funding allocated to the renewable energy sector by 2020. In 2016 Societe Generale maintained its position among the world leaders in this area. For example, it was involved in 100% of offshore wind farm projects financed in Europe this year. Severin Cabannes, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Societe Generale said A year after the pledges we made for COP 21, these latest decisions mark a new step forward for the bank in favour of the climate. They reflect Societe Generale’ s commitment to responsible financing as a way of developing a low-carbon economy. With a long-standing and established presence in the energy sector, the bank intends to be a major financer of the energy transition and undertakes to support its clients in this necessary area.
  2

 2 : COP26_UK276
HYPERLINK Sadiq Khan today said governments that del HYPERLINK ayed action on global warming had replaced climate change deniers a s the biggest obstacle to progress. The Mayor returned to HYPERLINK Glasgow to address the main stage at HYPERLINK COP26 on its cities and regions day as the two-week summit entered its final 48 hours. It came as the United Nations and activists gave a cautious welcome to an unexpected declaration HYPERLINK from the US and China, t Mr Khan, chairman of the C40 group of world cities committed to climate action, rounded on governments who “talked a good game” but failed to back up their pledges with hard cash. He was expected to say: “For years, climate change deniers have attempted to thwart climate action. But today the biggest obstacle to reducing our carbon emissions isn’t the climate change deniers, it’s the delayers. Unfortunately, we have seen yet more examples of this at COP26 . So my message to the UK government and other nation states and businesses around the world is that these delaying tactics must stop. The time for empty rhetoric and hollow gestures is over. We need urgent action now - not in 20 or 30 years’ time.” Sources denied the Mayor was abandoning his strategy of “building bridges” with the government. He was instead said to be taking the approach of a “critical friend” who accepted Boris Johnson understood the importance of tackling climate change but wanted to ensure he also funded the switch to a green economy. Mr Khan wants Government funding to convert London’s 9,000-strong bus fleet to electric vehicles. Only about 550 buses are electric at present. He will lead a delegation of C40 mayors to meet UN Secretary General Ant’f3nio Guterres to discuss cities’ role in slashing emissions . The UK COP26 presidency has published a first draft of a possible deal for countries to speed up plans in the next year for cutting emissions up to 2030. Read More HYPERLINK Night Tube: Sadiq urged to set date for reopening of all five lines HYPERLINK ‘Blah, blah, blah’: Sadiq Khan slammed for backing London F1 race during HYPERLINK COP26 HYPERLINK ‘Green’ London public transport system would create 300,000 jobs Classification Language:
~ENGLISH
  3

 3 : COP24_UK253
The European Union’s climate change chief has called for the bloc to bring its greenhouse gas emissions down to net zero by 2050 to tackle climate change. The proposal by climate commissioner Miguel Arias Ca’f1ete would make Europe the world’s first major economic to go fully “carbon neutral”. Speaking yesterday, Mr Arias Ca’f1ete said while the EU already had “the world’s most ambitious” climate change policies, they were “clearly not sufficient” to limit global warming in light of new evidence. The European Commission has unveiled a new strategy assessing options to achieve the goal, laying out a series of scenarios to be considered by member states. National governments will have to agree a final approach next year. That will be submitted to the United Nations in 2020. Agreement on the issue will be hard, however, with some countries like Poland and Germany struggling to meet their commitments, and others such as Denmark, Sweden and Spain seeking a more ambitious commitment. “In October, the IPCC [Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change] special report on 1.5C made it clear that emissions need to be reduced with far more urgency than previously anticipated and that limiting climate change to 1.5C is necessary to reduce the likelihood of extreme weather events. This has been a wake-up call,” Mr Arias Ca’f1ete told reporters in Brussels. The announcement comes ahead of the COP24 UN summit in Katowice, Poland, where it is hoped the implementation of the Paris Agreement on climate change will be finalised. Under current policies the EU is expected to cut emissions by about 60 per cent by 2050 compared to 1990 levels, with most of the work done by new energy efficiency and renewable energy targets. But to meet the Paris Agreement and keep warming below 2C or ideally 1.5C, the Commission’s report accepts that more action is needed. The Commission says going carbon-neutral will also have other significant benefits, such as cutting premature air pollution deaths by 40 per cent and adding 2 per cent to the EU’s economies by 2050, while reducing energy imports by over 70 per cent and saving up to Euro 3bn a year. The EU is already being hit by climate change, with the worst wildfires on record in Greece this summer killing 99. “The EU has already started the modernisation and transformation towards a climate neutral economy,” Mr Arias Ca’f1ete said. “And today, we are stepping up our efforts as we propose a strategy for Europe to become the world’s first major economy to go climate neutral by 2050. Going climate neutral is necessary, possible and in Europe’s interest. It is necessary to meet the long-term temperature goals of the Paris Agreement. It is possible with current technologies and those close to deployment. And it is in Europe’s interest to stop spending on fossil fuel imports and invest in meaningful improvements to the daily lives of all Europeans. No European, no region should be left behind. The EU will support those more impacted by this transition so that everyone’s ready to adapt to the new requirements of a climate neutral economy.”
  4

 4 : COP21_UK21
On the third day of the United Nations climate change conference ( COP21 ), dubbed ‘Resilience Day,’ the UN and the Governments of Peru and France have announced major international partnerships that are mobilizing large-scale financing to protect people who are most vulnerable to climate impacts. These initiatives are taking place under the Lima to Paris Action Agenda (LPAA), launched one year ago at the previous climate change conference in Peru, and aims to strength climate action beyond COP21 . “Resilience is really important because the climate is already changing, and we need to be able to not just adapt to the changes but actually develop in a way that takes into account that in the future, climate will still change,” Janos Pasztor, the UN Assistant Secretary-General on Climate Change, told the UN News Service in an interview at the conference site in Paris.
“Even if we stop all the emissions today, there are already enough greenhouse gases in the atmosphere that the climate will continue to change,” he continued. “So we need to adjust our development process, adjust our economic approach [. . . ] and be more resilient to future changes that will happen.” Bold announcements were made at COP21 today, which was dedicated to building more resilient societies and economies. According to the UN, extreme climate already impacts hundreds of millions of people every year, undermining or destroying their livelihoods, their homes and their environment. The Rockefeller Foundation estimates that over the last 30 years, one dollar out of every three spent on development has been lost as a result of such recurring crises, a total loss of $ 3.8 trillion dollars worldwide. In contrast, resilient societies and economies suffer less and recover more quickly from such natural disasters. “Resilience-it is very important when we talk about climate change and its consequences,” Manuel Pulgar-Vidal, Peru’s Minister of the Environment, told the UN News Service. “When we talk about resilience, we are talking about how can we resist [. . . ] and avoid negative consequences to our human population,” he explained.
“To the wildlife, to the habitat, to the ecosystems, to the water, to the ocean-that is why we have the ‘Resilience Day.’ If climate change is going to bring us natural disasters, we should have the objective of resilience as a way to face those kinds of consequences.” Meanwhile, the UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR) today launched a new ‘Climate Risk Early Warning System,’ (CREWS), while the governments of Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands agreed to give more than $ 80 million dollars to equip up to 80 countries with better systems to support countries most vulnerable to climate disasters. The plan was first proposed in March by France’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Laurent Fabius at the Third UN World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction in Sendai, Japan. “Climate related disasters cause human losses and dramatic economic losses each year,” said France’s Secretary of State for Development Annick Girardin. “We will first help the most exposed countries among [Least Developed Countries] and Small Island States which will be most at risk as the frequency and severity of such hazards are expected to increase in this part of the world,” she added. News from COP21 also included the announcement from a broad coalition of nations, river basin organizations, business and civil society of the creation of the international Paris Pact on Water and Climate Change Adaptation to make water systems - considered the very foundation of sustainable human development-more resilient to climate impacts. Almost 290 water basin organizations are reportedly engaged under this new Pact. They say without improved water resources management, the progress towards poverty reduction targets, the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and sustainable development in all its economic, social and environmental dimensions, will be jeopardized. According to a press release issued by the main actors of the LPAA, many other initiatives launched on
‘Resilience Day’ covered the “full spread of peoples’ needs” as they face increasing climate impacts.” (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  5

 5 : COP25_UK155
GEOFFREY COX could be offered the chance to run a major review into judicial activism as a sop for being sacked in Boris Johnson’s first reshuffle since his election landslide this week. The Attorney General is being tipped for a move out of government after sources briefed that he was “not a team player”. However, Tory sources say that to sugar the pill he could be asked to run a new Constitution, Democracy and Rights Commission, which will consider whether to rein in the scope of judicial review challenges in courts. The Tory party’s manifesto commits the Government to setting up the commission before December. One senior Tory source said the job had been “pretty much designed for him”. Lucy Frazer is being lined up to replace Mr Cox, although one minister told The Sunday Telegraph: “Geoffrey doesn’t want to go yet, he certainly wants to stay as Attorney General through the [Brexit] negotiations.” Mr Johnson is understood to have set up a large white board on which he is moving around names and faces of his Cabinet. One Cabinet minister said the Prime Minister was keeping his plans very private, adding:
“The one thing none of us know is what is in Boris’s mind.” Westminster has been awash with rumours all week, with some claiming that the positions of Dominic Raab, the Foreign Secretary, and Sajid Javid, the Chancellor, were under threat. Other moves being considered include Cabinet Office minister Oliver Dowden to the culture department, and Mark Spencer to replace Theresa Villiers in the environment, food and rural affairs department. Michael Gove, the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, is tipped to be given a wider role running the Brexit talks at a beefed-up Cabinet Office. The Prime Minister is also being urged to make the role of the Northern Powerhouse minister - occupied by Jake Berry - a full-time Cabinet position to be a “northern enforcer across the whole of Government”. Lord Goldsmith of Richmond Park is widely tipped to be given the role of chairing the COP26 United Nations Climate Change conference in November. The jobs of Ben Wallace, the Defence Secretary, and Andrea Leadsom, the Business Secretary, are under threat.
  6

 6 : COP25_UK223
From this week, representatives of Governments and businesses from around the world will gather in Madrid for the UN Climate Change Conference ( COP25 ). The event brings together those working to implement the Paris Agreement and develop solutions to address the escalating climate crisis. As a business committed to leaving the world in a better state than it is today and to underline a commitment to being truly people and planet positive, representatives of Inter IKEA Group - the owner of the IKEA Concept and the worldwide IKEA franchisor - will attend and participate in COP. Ahead of the event Inter IKEA Group have announced they will invest (EURO)200 million to speed up the transformation to becoming a climate positive business. More than half of the IKEA climate footprint comes from materials in the products and production. The investments will be divided into two, the first will support the ambition to use 100% renewable energy (electricity, heating, cooling and other fuels) across the value chain and in production, by 2030. It will be built on collaboration with direct suppliers. The second, will invest in projects aimed at removing and storing carbon through reforestation and responsible forest management. Wood is one of the main materials that IKEA uses and for many years IKEA has worked to promote responsible forest management around the world. Responsibly managed forests play a vital role in protecting ecosystems, supporting biodiversity and climate change mitigation. The projects in the second strategy will be built in collaboration with partners to achieve scale and maximum impact. The projects will consider the wider aspect of land use and include activities to combat deforestation and support restoration of degraded land. According to the IPCC, global greenhouse gas emissions would be heavily reduced if deforestation was stopped. Announcing the investments, Torbj’f6rn L’f6’f6f, CEO at Inter IKEA Group, said “Our ambition is to reduce more greenhouse gas emissions in absolute terms by 2030 than the entire IKEA value chain emits, while growing the IKEA business. To reach this goal, we will continue to invest in areas that create impact. This investment will speed up the transition to using renewable energy across our supply chain and remove carbon from the atmosphere through reforestation and better forest management practices” “By taking responsibility and working together we can make a true change. We have a long-term perspective and the financial strength to invest in activities that will benefit both the planet and our own business future,” Lena Pripp-Kovac, Chief Sustainability Officer, Inter IKEA Group, said “We believe that the best way to minimise our climate impact and to contribute to limiting climate change to 1.5’b0C is mainly by reducing our greenhouse gas emissions - but we also need to remove existing carbon from the atmosphere. We can make a positive difference through our integrated supply chain, our global presence and our forest and climate expertise.” Inter IKEA Group will lead and participate in several events and panels throughout COP25 , covering issues as diverse as what it means to be climate positive, the role of the food chain within the climate agenda, and land use and biodiversity. Inter IKEA Group consists of three core businesses: Franchise, Range & Supply and Industry. This includes developing, designing and producing IKEA home furnishing solutions, supplying products to IKEA’s 13 franchisees and as a manufacturer of IKEA’s wood-based products, IKEA Ltd. (UK and Ireland), operates IKEA’s UK retail business, including 22 IKEA stores, three Order and Collection Points and two Planning Studios, and is part of Ingka Group, the largest of the IKEA franchisees.
  7

 7 : COP25_UK61
Mr Johnson needs a “big-hitter” to get the COP26 event back on track after he sacked the former energy minister Claire O’Neill as its president. But the former prime minister said no to the high-profile role, which would involve extensive visits to national governments and institutions such as the EU to get them on board. The COP26 president would then assume the role of chairman during the summit itself in November. Related articles Mr Cameron said: “It was an honour to be asked to do that job and I’m very grateful to have been asked.”But I think it’s best in these situations if you have a Government minister doing the job; you then have one line of command rather than, perhaps, two people doing the same thing. “There are a lot of things I have already agreed to do this year, not least the work I do for Alzheimer’s Research UK, so I thought it was important that I carried on with that work.” He continued: “But I wish the Government well, I wish this climate change conference well, because it’s absolutely vital.”I’m sure that there will be a Government minister, or someone, who will be able to do the job and do it very well. The Government has my backing as they go forward.” Another former Tory leader, Lord Hague, is also understood to have been sounded out by Downing Street but has also turned down the offer. READ MORE:Boris ‘doesn’t get’ climate crisis, says sacked environmental aide Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn has nominated his predecessor Ed Miliband for the climate summit job. Mr Corbyn’s officials spokesman said: “Ed Miliband is certainly someone who has a strong record and would be an entirely suitable person.”The issue is not exactly who should take on the role, but that it’s somebody with credibility. “The performance we have seen in the last day or two over this subject is just a reflection of the fact that Boris Johnson is not serious about the climate crisis.” Ms O’Neill’s dismissal was justified by Number 10, which said it had been decided the job was a “ministerial role”. She hit back at Mr Johnson earlier this week by questioning his green credentials and claiming he had privately admitted he “doesn’t really understand” climate change. In a personal attack on the Prime Minister, Ms O’Neill said: “My advice to anybody to whom Boris is making promises - whether it is voters, world leaders, ministers, employees or indeed to family members - is to get it in writing, get a lawyer to look at it and make sure the money is in the bank.” DON’T MISSBritons furious over shock new ban for petrol and diesel cars by 2035[SPOTLIGHT]Boris Johnson left red-faced as BBC reporter questions PM on axed ally[VIDEO]Brexit: EU teases teases new meat tax to fight climate change[FOCUS] Mr Corbyn and Mr Johnson clashed over the issue at Prime Minister’s Questions in the Commons today. Mr Corbyn quoted Ms O’Neill, saying “there has been a huge lack of leadership and engagement from this Government”. Mr Johnson replied: “If you look at what this Government is achieving and already has achieved on climate change, it is quite phenomenal.” The UN climate talks are the most important since the Paris Agreement to curb global warming was secured in 2015. Countries are expected to deliver more ambitious domestic plans for cutting greenhouse gases by 2030, as current proposals are not enough to prevent dangerous temperature rises. Pressure is also on countries to set out long-term plans for cutting emissions, with the science now clear that the world must reduce greenhouse gases to zero in a matter of decades to avoid the worst impacts of climate change. The run-up to the talks will require a major diplomatic effort from the UK to secure ambitious climate action from countries - at a time when Britain is also negotiating trade agreements with the EU and other nations.
  8

 8 : COP25_UK221
The First Minister of Scotland went on a rant on Twitter after seeing comments by the Prime Minister’s spokesman which indicated the UN summit may not take place in Glasgow as planned this November. Boris Johnson’s spokesman insisted the Government was “committed” to the event taking place in Scotland but called on the Scottish Government to do more and work together with the UK. Sebastian Payne, Financial Times’ Whitehall correspondent wrote on Twitter: “Will COP26 move to London? Related articles”Prime Minister’s spokesperson says ‘we are committed to holding to COP26 in Glasgow. But the Scottish government needs to work with us to ensure it’s a successful summit’. “Committed doesn’t mean it will happen. . . piling the pressure on @NicolaSturgeon.” The SNP chief then reacted furiously and accused Mr Johnson of “playing politics” and reiterated Scotland’s commitment to hosting the event. Ms Sturgeon fired back: “This is just silly .”If he insists on playing politics it will be on him, not me.” She wrote: “It’s not a row. It’s a PM playing politics with the biggest issue of our time - he should be called out on it, not indulged.” It is understood Downing Street has considered the ExCel Centre in London’s docklands at a potential replacement venue. There are concerns in Whitehall about whether the estimated costs of policing the event put forward by the Scottish Government are realistic. Former Environment Secretary Michael Gove has acknowledged the Government needs to do more to show leadership on global warming. The Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster is thought to be inline for the role of President of the COP26 summit. READ MORE: Sturgeon’s dream to rejoin EU destroyed as MP exposes trade deficit Speaking at conference held by environmental think-tank Green Alliance, Mr Gove said the UK has a moral responsibility to lead on climate change. He pointed to the UK’s achievements in cutting emissions so far, but said: “Even as we do celebrate what we’ve achieved, be in no doubt the Government recognises there’s so much more we need to do in order genuinely to demonstrate leadership.”It is not enough to look at the trajectory in the past. We have to be even more ambitious in the future.” DON’T MISS Sturgeon’s separatist obsession a ‘direct threat’ to Scottish jobs [INSIGHT]SNP shamed over plans to force fishermen under EU again [ANALYSIS]Brexit LIVE: EU civil war as FIVE member states face crippling budget [LIVE] Related articles Following the Government’s announcement on bringing a ban on new petrol and diesel vehicles forward to 2035, he said there would be further initiatives through the year on areas such as energy generation, construction, house-building and energy intensive industries. He added: “One of the reasons we think it’s so important is not just because we’re hosting COP but also because we believe the UK has a moral responsibility to lead.” The 2020 United Nations Climate Change Conference will take place between November 9-19. Related articles Macron’s ‘plot to dethrone London’ in Brexit talks exposed Australia ready to strike deal with Britain as ‘new dawn’ begins Could Dominic Cummings follow pro-Brexit MPs out in wake of reshuffle?
  9

 9 : COP22_UK55
November 14, 2016 MARRAKECH – Leo, the innovative baggage robot developed by air transport IT provider SITA, is in Marrakech for the COP22 climate talks taking place in the city from 7-18 November 2016. Leo, is being hosted by Royal Air Maroc, Moroccos national carrier. Leo will be on display in the main COP22 convention centre in Bab Ighli from 7-16 November before moving to Marrakech Manara Airport and Casablanca Mohammed V International Airport this week where the robot will assist delegates flying Royal Air Maroc to check-in their bags. SITAs baggage robot will remain in Morocco until November 27 where the national airline will conduct numerous airport trials using Leo. Abdelhamid Addou, Chairman & CEO of Royal Air Maroc, said: The smart use of new technologies is undoubtedly the key to improving the passenger experience while helping airlines better manage a growing number of travelers in a more sustainable way. This requires out-of-the-box thinking and Leo is exactly the sort of innovative exploration that will help airlines and airports manage the new challenges we as an industry will face in the next decade. Leo is a fully autonomous, self-propelling baggage robot that has the capacity to check in, print bag tags and transport up to two suitcases with a maximum weight of 32kg. It also has an obstacle avoidance capability and can navigate in a high-traffic environment such as an airport. Leo provides a glimpse into the future of baggage handling being explored by SITA Lab and is the first step to automating the baggage process from the moment passengers drop their bags to when they collect them. Using robotics and artificial intelligence, bags will be collected, checked in, transported and loaded onto the correct flight without ever having to enter the terminal building or be directly handled by anyone other than by the passengers themselves. Hani El-Assaad, SITA President, Middle East, India and Africa said: Through the innovative work of the SITA Lab we are able to tackle some of the key challenges that face airlines and airports today. Leo demonstrates that technologies such as robotics can help the air transport industry manage the growth in traffic in a more sustainable way while offering passengers an unencumbered journey through the airport and onto the aircraft. Leo comes to the assistance of passengers as they approach the terminal building. Touching Leos Scan&Fly bag drop interface opens the baggage compartment doors to allow passengers to place their bags inside. After the passengers have scanned their boarding passes, the tags are printed and can be attached to the bag. With the bags loaded and tagged, the compartment door closes and Leo displays the boarding gate and departure time. Leo then takes the bags directly to the baggage handling area where they are sorted and connected to the correct flight. About SITA SITA is the communications and IT solution provider that transforms air travel through technology for airlines, at airports and on aircraft. The companys portfolio covers everything from managed global communications and infrastructure services, to eAircraft, passenger management, baggage, self-service, airport and border management solutions. Owned 100% by more than 400 air transport industry members, SITA has a unique understanding of its needs and places a strong emphasis on technology innovation. Nearly every airline and airport in the world does business with SITA and its border management solutions are used by more than 30 governments. With a presence at more than 1,000 airports around the world and a customer service team of 2,000+ staff, SITA delivers unmatched service to more than 2,800 customers in more than 200 countries. In 2015, SITA had consolidated revenues of US$ 1.7 billion. SITAs subsidiaries and joint ventures include SITAONAIR, CHAMP Cargosystems and Aviareto. For further information go to HYPERLINK www.sita.aero
  10

 10 : COP22_UK192
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and Kazakhstan’s national gas operator, KazTransGas, have agreed to join forces in supporting the country’s drive towards a green economy. According to a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed in Astana today, the two partners will explore ways to promote energy efficiency in the gas sector. A more efficient use of energy and reduced losses will strengthen energy security and help Kazakhstan cut greenhouse gas emissions. The document was signed by EBRD First Vice President Phil Bennett and Rustam Suleimanov, the General Director of KazTransGas. The EBRD and KazTransGas, which is mainly engaged in the transportation, sale, exploration and production of natural gas in Kazakhstan, will examine specific possibilities for modernisation and energy efficiency improvements in gas compressor stations and gas networks, systems responsible for the monitoring and control of fugitive greenhouse gas emissions and of supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems. The EBRD is a leader in sustainable energy investments, including in other countries of Central Asia and eastern Europe with similar energy efficiency challenge, and in research and technical cooperation related to energy and resource efficiency. The cooperation framework will allow KazTransGas to benefit from EBRD expertise in this area. The EBRD and KazTransGas started cooperating in May this year, when the EBRD committed nearly EUR300 million to two landmark projects in Kazakhstan aimed at the modernisation of gas networks and the fuel switch from coal to gas for heat and power generation with the upgrade of the Bozoi underground gas storage to help it reach full capacity. The signing of the MoU comes shortly before the COP22 climate talks in Morocco. As a result of the historic COP21 talks in Paris last year, Kazakhstan has undertaken to reduce its CO2 emissions and increase the sustainable use of energy. The EBRD has consistently supported Kazakhstan’s policy to build up a ‘green economy’ by financing the first solar and wind power renewable energy projects, a range of energy efficiency projects, as well as by supporting the introduction of renewable energy law and supporting. The EBRD invested close to US$ 7.5 billion in Kazakhstan’s economy to date. Addressing global challenges such as climate change is one of the Bank’s priorities. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  11

 11 : COP22_UK294
Beyond the work of governments, other stakeholders such businesses, cities and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) have a crucial role to play in implementing the Paris Agreement on climate change, ‘Climate Champions’
Laurence Tubiana and Hakima El Haite said today in Marrakech, where the United Nations conference known as ’ COP 22 ’ is under way. Ms. Tubiana, French Ambassador on climate change, and Ms. El Haite, Moroccan Minister in charge of Environment, were appointed Climate Champions by the Conference of Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in Paris last year (COP 21), where nations adopted the landmark Agreement, which calls on countries to combat climate change and to accelerate and intensify the actions and investments needed for a sustainable low carbon future, and to adapt to the increasing impacts of the phenomenon. The two high-level Champions were tasked with heeding the call made at COP 21 and taking forward the idea that mobilizing stronger and more ambitious climate action by all Parties and non-Party stakeholders is urgently required if the Paris goals are to be achieved. Just last week, on 4 November when the Paris Agreement entered into force, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon convened at UN Headquarters in New York a special meeting with civil society representatives, thanking them for their courage, persistence and leadership in realizing the Paris Agreement and calling on them to “keep up the fight,” to press for action and to hold governments accountable. Ms. Tubiana and Ms. El Haite have meanwhile set out a detailed agenda to boost cooperative action between governments, cities, business, investors and citizens to cut emissions rapidly and help vulnerable nations adapt to climate impacts and build their own clean energy, sustainable futures. They have also launched a consultative process in order to seek the views of governments and non-State stakeholders on this vision. During COP 22 , several thematic days have been planned, including on forests, water, cities, energy, transport and agriculture. “In Paris, it was about momentum, enthusiasm and political commitment. Now the question is how we will implement and how we will conduct a race against time,” said Ms. Tubiana during a press conference in Marrakech on about the launch of the Champion’s ‘Global Climate Action Agenda’ to mobilize non-State actors. The [Agenda] “is really the response to this race against time that everyone, governments first, but also cities, businesses, civil society, indigenous people, youth, women movements” is part of, she added. “We can’t be complacent,” underscored Ms. Tubiana. “We have everything to do, we are lagging behind.” She added that the [Action Agenda] “is a way to accelerate the movement, to accelerate action, develop cooperation, to do it faster, better, cheaper and to get everyone on the same page [. . . ] It is about concrete action on the ground, how to transform the transport, how to have better cities, how really to stop deforestation,” she added. Ms. El Haite stressed that 80 per cent of the decisions on climate action are implemented by non-State actors. “I think it is very important for all of us to recognize that the non-State actors are already moving and there are many [actions], initiatives and coalitions and they are very active,” she said. “This is the first time we are building a real partnership between the non-State actors and the actors,” she added. “We think it is very important to have these partnerships. We have built for many years walls between the negotiators and the parties and the real world and the non-State actors. Today we need to build bridges between them.” Asked by the UN News Centre about the link between climate change and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Ms. Tubiana noted that there is a “single development agenda” and that climate is “a part of that development agenda.” “No doubt the negotiations on implementation are more advanced in the climate area than in other areas, but it is all the same thing [. . . ] There is one agenda that governments must implement and this new development model should really be supported by the citizens, the businesses, the financial sector in each country, and internationally,” she added. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  12

 12 : COP23_UK211
Representing Alstom and the Hydrogen Council, Henri Poupart-Lafarge has appeared as part of a panel at One Planet Summit, an event co-organised by the French Presidency, the United Nations and the World Bank.
Mr. Poupart-Lafarge was there as CEO of a world-leading mobility company and on behalf of the Hydrogen Council following its meeting at COP 23 in November. Other panel members included Isabella Lovin, Swedish Minister for International Development Cooperation and Climate and Deputy PM, Laurence Tubiana, CEO of the European Climate Foundation, and Monica Araya, Founder and Executive Director of Nivela, Costa Rica. Sustainable transportation is at the centre of any discussion about limiting global emissions. At today’s Summit,
Mr. Poupart-Lafarge explained the Hydrogen Council’s aim of ensuring that all hydrogen used in transportation be completely decarbonised by 2030. ‘We need partnerships, to be all around the table establishing the right technical, financial and legislative environment to allow this decarbonised hydrogen to emerge. As part of a broader energy policy, we know that hydrogen can play a key role in clean energy storage.’ With the launch of the Coradia iLint in 2016 - the world’s first Hydrogen fuel cell train - followed by a first contract for 14 trains signed with Germany’s Lower Saxony region in October 2017, Alstom is ahead of the curve in driving decarbonisation in the mobility sector. Indeed, the innovation is proof that hydrogen fuel cell vehicles are feasible, both technically and commercially.
‘What we need to develop is everything around it: the infrastructure and complete decarbonisation of the hydrogen used.’ The One Planet Summit, co-organised by the French Presidency, the United Nations and the World Bank, marks the two-year anniversary of 2015’s Paris Agreement. Assembling critical public and private stakeholders, the Summit aims to establish the financial alignment and concrete financing solutions that will enable the realisation of the Agreement’s objectives, both in terms of emissions reduction and the protection of populations against the consequences of climate change. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  13

 13 : COP22_UK131
SABIC bolstered Saudi Arabia’s participation in Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week (ADSW) by providing the delegation with information about several up-and-running initiatives that are helping to promote the Kingdom’s reputation as a regional leader in responsible and sustainable development. “Saudi Arabia is quickly emerging as a regional leader in sustainability,” said Yousef Al-Benyan, SABIC Vice Chairman and CEO, who is leading the company’s delegation. “At SABIC, we are proud that some of our most important initiatives have helped progress on this journey, including the Home of InnovationTM, which is promoting sustainable downstream development, and the world’s largest CO2 utilization plant.” “Examples such as these not only prove that Saudi Arabia places a great importance on sustainable development, but also that we have been working hard for many years to put practical solutions in place. This is ‘Chemistry that MattersTM’ to the long-term health of our society.” The SABIC delegation is attending Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week in Masdar City on “Global Action Day”, January 16, and the “World Future Energy Summit” from January 17 to 19. ADSW is a global platform to address the interconnected challenges that affect the widespread acceleration and adoption of sustainable development and clean energy. The Saudi delegation is building on the Gulf Cooperation Council’s highly successful participation in the United Nations’ Conference of Parties ( COP22 ), held in Morocco in November. Saudi Arabia is a “country of focus” for the event because of its emerging regional sustainability leadership role as highlighted in the Saudi Vision 2030 and its advances in renewable energy. On January 17, Saudi delegates will highlight the country’s major initiatives during two panel discussions. Fahad Al-Sherehy, Leader, SABIC T&I, will represent the company during the panel entitled “Transforming the Energy Sector in Saudi Arabia to Enable Vision 2030.” Sustainable SABIC initiatives showcased at the event include the Home of InnovationTM, a project to foster downstream development through collaboration and innovation. The facility includes a demonstration house, designed to achieve net-zero energy in the demanding climatic conditions of Saudi Arabia. SABIC achieved this efficiency by integrating innovative solutions in collaboration with industry-leading partners. The home has over 200 advanced systems, materials, and products, including many that reduce energy and water use. If all homes in Saudi Arabia were as efficient as the Demonstration House it would reduce CO2 emissions by the equivalent of six coal-fired power plants. SABIC has also built the world’s largest CO2 capture and utilization plant at its manufacturing affiliate United in Jubail. The plant is designed to capture up to 500,000 tons of CO2 from the production of ethylene glycol annually, before purifying and distributing it to a network of affiliates to produce valuable products such as fertilizers. The project reduces emissions while increasing efficiency and lowering costs. Featuring prominently at the conference are SABIC’s qualified sustainability solutions, which create less CO2 emissions than traditional materials during production or save more in other lifecycle phases. They include a wide range of solutions for use in transportation, construction, medical devices, electrical and electronics, clean energy, packaging, and agri-nutrients. These solutions pass suitability benefits to customers by enabling the creation of productions that are lighter, stronger, thinner, more durable, better insulated, or more easily manufactured. Last year, SABIC’s manufacturing operations utilized 3.3 million tons of CO2. The company is on target to meet ambitious targets to reduce green-house gas, energy, and water intensities by 25 percent, and material loss intensity by 50 percent by 2025-from levels in 2010. Al-Benyan said:
“Sustainability is helping SABIC to emerge as a global leader in the petrochemicals industry. Embedding sustainable practices in our global operations has resulted in many benefits such as energy savings, improved resource efficiency, technological innovation and cost savings.” (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  14

 14 : COP26_UK99
THE COP26 UN climate summit is likely to have had E2little impactE2 on the spread of Covid-19 in Scotland, experts have said. Public Health Scotland (PHS) was also clear there was E2no evidence of any connectionE2 between cases of the new Omicron variant and the summit E2 which was attended by leading politicians from across the globe, as well as tens of thousands of protesters. A new report found that 353 people across Scotland who were infected with coronavirus reported attending an event at or were linked to the gathering E2 such as attending the summit itself, or taking part in workshops, protests or marches. The study, which looked at the impact the climate change conference in Glasgow had on the pandemic in Scotland, found over the period of COP26 from October 31 to November 13, around two in every 1000 people affiliated to the event tested positive for the virus, either using a lateral flow device or a PCR test. That compares to a survey of the overall Scottish population that estimated between 11 and 12 people out of every 1000 were infected between November 6 and 13. READ MORE:C2Omicron may have seeded in Scotland at COP26 , suggests top scientist The report said that although the seven-day incidence rate of infection in Scotland began to increase during the period of the summit E2 going from 330 cases per 100,000 on November 1 to 389 cases per 100,000 on November 13 E2 this was E2primarily drivenE2 by rising cases amongst youngsters aged between five and 11 years old. In the second week of the summit, case rates rose amongst adults aged between 20 and 49, but these E2stabilised and started to decline in the two weeks after COP26 alongside the rates amongst the younger age groupE2. And while the summit took place in Glasgow, the report found that NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde had the lowest seven-day incidence rate of coronavirus infections of all the mainland health boards for the period of the event. The report said: E2Data available to PHS from enhanced and routine Covid-19 surveillance does not indicate a direct COP26 contribution to the increase in Covid-19 infections nationwide during the summit and there is no evidence of any connection between Omicron cases and COP26 . COP26 has had little impact on Covid-19 epidemiology in Scotland.E2 Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  15

 15 : COP26_UK244
SCOTTISH independence activists are planning to “hijack” a major climate change march during the Cop26 summit, it has emerged. The All Under One Banner (AUOB) group, which has previously organised pro-independence demonstrations in Scottish cities, said it would exploit a climate march to promote the case for separation to a global audience. Cop26 ” and organisers want to see “thousands of saltires” on the march. As many as 150,000 people are expected to march through Glasgow on Nov 6 to highlight the climate emer gency and call for faster action to protect the environment. While the group is not affiliated to the SNP, Nicola Sturgeon will also set out her plans to insert herself into Cop26 today by amplifying messages from climate activists and poorer nations. However, some UK Government figures fear the First Minister is also plotting to use Cop26 as a “soapbox for her independence obsession”. John Ferry, finance spokesman for the Scottish LibDems, urged the AUOB activists to abandon their plans, claiming they were planning to exploit a “crucial event” for “partisan interests”. ” Cop26 is perhaps the last chance we have to avoid catastrophic climate change, and it is incredibly disappointing to find parts of the movement for secession using such an important moment as yet another opportunity to indulge in divisive flag-waving,” he said. “This threatens to make Scotland look out-of-touch and parochial on the world stage.” While environmental campaigners have been warned they will face arrest if they engage in illegal acts of civil disobedience, police have said people are encouraged to attend the march. Events to coincide with the Glasgow protest will take place all over the world, with parallel marches planned in the US, Canada and across Europe. AUOB said pro-independence activists joining the march would show “an independent Scotland free of Tory rule can lead the fight in saving our planet”. Donald Cameron, constitutional affairs spokesman for the Scottish Tories, said:
“Their planned march to hijack COP26 , and promote their agenda to separate Scotland from the rest of the UK, will not distract from the overall aim of the summit.” Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  16

 16 : COP22_UK273
By Nigel Davis Solar impulse Covestro JOHANNESBURG (ICIS)–The Paris climate change accord is held out as the beacon of hope for those who believe sincerely in anthropomorphic climate change. Many of the accord’s adherents would also argue strongly for further, concerted global action to stem greenhouse gas emissions. US president-elect Donald Trump has stated loud and clear that he is one of the naysayers. He has strong backing among groups which would love to roll back President Obama’s climate action plan and give stronger support to the fossil fuel industries. So what happens next as regards the landmark, global climate agreement very much hangs in the balance, although the steps being taken worldwide to shift away from the burning of fossil fuels should not be underestimated. It is this underlying trend that ultimately will have the greatest impact. The incentives to adopt clean technologies are so much better understood now than only a few years ago. A generation is growing up keen to live in a cleaner world and one in which industries and individuals pollute less. So the argument is not simply about wind power in one part of the world or other alternative sources of energy in others. It is about the total, overarching drive to produce cleaner electricity and deliver it more effectively. Cleaner motive power is part and parcel of that drive. At the COP22 It is not surprising to see two chemical companies giving their support to the clean technologies initiative. Materials makers Solvay and Covestro understand the opportunities as well as the challenges that lie ahead as regards the battle against climate change and how their products and technologies might be applied in future. Solvay was Solar Impulse’s first partner. “The success of Solar Impulse has proven to the world how powerful collaborative innovation between visionary entrepreneurs and companies that believe in science and research can be to deliver technological breakthroughs. This is just the beginning of what open collaboration and innovation can do to combat climate change,” said Solvay CEO, Jean-Pierre Clamadieu, as creation of the alliance was announced. This is all about taking the far-seeing and outrageously ambitious Solar Impulse initiative much, much further. “We need to embrace clean technologies, not because they are eco-logical,' but because they arelogical,’” said chairman of the Solar Impulse Foundation and one of the Solar Impulse pilots, Bertrand Piccard. “Even if climate change didn’t exist, energy efficient technologies would make sense to create jobs, generate profit and boost economic development, while also reducing CO2 emissions and protecting natural resources,” was his most telling point. Clean technologies make sense for most people in most places. But, until now, there has been no organisation specifically designed to accommodate clean technology stakeholders. The alliance says it will “bring together start-ups, companies, institutions and organisations producing, implementing or supporting the use of clean technologies. Together, the members will share experiences and create synergies in order to improve the overall value chain and demonstrate concrete solutions to support governments, corporations and institutions in reaching their environmental and health targets, advising them depending on their specific situation.” Covestro’s chief sustainability officer, Richard Northcote, said: “Our contribution to the Solar Impulse project proved that we have the technology to make the world a brighter place and through this alliance we intend to accelerate the implementation of these technologies to tackle the challenges society faces while generating business growth.” It will be fascinating to see what the alliance’s first projects are.
  17

 17 : COP21_UK7
During the historic COP21 UN climate change summit negotiations in Paris, Ramboll participated in, and hosted, a number of events to share sustainable solutions to climate change challenges. World Climate Summit - a forum for business, finance and government At the World Climate Summit that runs in parallel to the annual United Nations climate change Conference of the Parties (COP), Ramboll CEO Jens-Peter Saul participated in a panel debate about developing new business models for driving change and scaling solutions. He urged leaders to take action by doing all they can to ensure the best solutions are chosen for our society and for the planet. During the summit Ramboll shared its experiences, best practice and solutions, to demonstrate what can be achieved. C40 Cities -City Solutions Platform Next door to the UN COP21 climate negotiations, Ramboll participated in an event co-hosted by State of Green and C40 at the Danish Pavilion to launch of the City Solutions Platform, which is an initiative by the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group to promote more public-private partnerships in the fight against climate challenges. C40 member cities Copenhagen and Vancouver are supporting the launch of the City Solutions Platform as they have some of the most ambitious plans for climate actions - Copenhagen to be the first carbon neutral capital in 2025 and Vancouver to be the greenest city in the world by 2020. Sharing experiences of green growth investments & Blue-green infrastructure At the City Solutions Platform, Ramboll’s Group Market Director Neel Strobaek took centre stage with CEO Mikkel Hemmingsen from the City of Copenhagen, to present best practice cases on urban planning, energy efficiency and blue-green infrastructure and participated in two panel debates on public-private partnerships. Herbert Dreiseitl, Director of Ramboll’s Liveable Cities Lab, also presented the conclusions from the new research study, ‘Enhancing Blue-Green and Social Performance in High Density Urban Environments’, funded by the Ramboll Foundation ‘We should see water in cities as an opportunity, not a problem. Blue-green infrastructure makes cities liveable, and it doesn’t have to be expensive’ Herbert Dreiseitl Paris Process on Mobility and Climate (PPMC) Ramboll’s Simon Price joined international experts on transport and climate change at the PPMC’s ‘Clean Mobility’ invitation only reception at the Eiffel Tower. At COP21 side events, PPMC brought together the transport community in support of accelerating action on climate change. Ramboll bloggers react to COP21 While Ramboll representatives were busy in Paris, blog contributors engaged with the topics over the 10 days creating insightful articles and comments. CONTACT: Tel: +44 (0)20 7631 5291 Fax: +44 (0)845 299 1610 Email: HYPERLINK london@ramboll.co.uk Web: HYPERLINK [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  18

 18 : COP21_UK26
Bureau Veritas Certification handled the ISO 20121 certification to the COP21 General Secretariat. For the first time ever, a State and UN Climate Conference is ISO 20121 certified. It is a unique experience shared by Bureau Veritas Certification. In the presence of Segolene Royal, the French Minister of Ecology, Sustainable Development and Energy received, Pierre-Henri Guignard, COP 21 chief organizer received the ISO 20121 certificate from Jacques Matillon, Director for Bureau Veritas Certification France. The ISO standard awards the sustainable development policy of COP21 that includes: 1 - Guaranteeing a quality welcome (catering, transport, work rooms) 2 - Fostering responsible innovation 3 - Limiting the ecological footprint (promoting the circular economy, aiming for a carbon neutral event). 4 - Leaving a strong legacy for local communities and for the organizers of future COP meetings and the organization of future major national and international events in France. The audit was carried out in three separate steps with a focus on three criteria: Preparation Event good progress and the experience feedbacks (Return on Experience) ISO 20121 certification objective is to support the organizers of events of all types in integrating sustainability with their activities. CONTACT: Tel: +33 1 55 24 70 00 [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  19

 19 : COP26_UK299
THE COP26 climate summit is due to end today, with negotiators scrambling to salvage a significant deal on reducing global carbon emissions. Cop26 president Alok Sharma yesterday warned “time is running out” in Glasgow for the 180 countries at the summit to agree to a deal. While the summit will officially end today, Boris Johnson indicated negotiations could stretch into the weekend as happened in previous years. China and the US, the globe’s two largest CO2 emitters, on Wednesday agreed to team up to phase out fossil fuels in an unexpected deal. Pundits have said the deal provides hope that China could come to the table and agree to a deal to strengthen commitments made in the 2015 Paris Climate Accord. Sharma said proposals over reducing fossil fuel subsidies and accelerating reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are still crucial stumbling blocks. “Whilst we have made progress we are not there yet on the most critical issues. There is still a lot more work to be done - time is running out,” he said. “As I speak my ministerial facilitators and negotiators are rolling up their sleeves and working hard to find solutions to some of the most intractable issues.” The draft text of the Cop26 deal notes “with serious concern” that existing global agreements are insufficient to keep global warming to 1.5 degrees. The draft, which sets out what negotiators hope will be the outcome of Cop26 , asks countries to “revisit and strengthen the 2030 targets in their nationally determined contributions, as necessary to align with the Paris Agreement temperature goal by the end of 2022”. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  20

 20 : COP26_UK165
LONDON, United Kingdom – Sharma to urge countries to deliver on the commitments made in the historic Glasgow Climate Pact; the COP President will say it is in the self-interest of countries to work together on climate change; Speech at Chatham House in London will outline priorities for the UK’s COP Presidency year. Countries need to work together to deliver on the promises made in Glasgow COP26 President, Alok Sharma, will say today
(Monday 24th January). In his first major speech since COP26 , Sharma will reflect on the commitments secured at COP26 and the historic Glasgow Climate Pact signed by almost 200 countries at the summit last year. He will set out his agenda to turn ambition into action for the rest of the UK’s Presidency this year, outlining that whilst the summit has concluded, the world must maintain the urgency and the energy to honour the promises made, as we approach COP27 in Sharm-El Sheikh in November. Today’s speech will outline the UK’s priorities to deliver on the Glasgow Climate Pact during its COP Presidency year: 1. Ensuring promises on emissions reductions are kept to keep 1.5 degrees alive. That every country honours the commitment in the Glasgow Climate Pact to strengthen their climate change targets to align with the Paris temperature goal as necessary in 2022, as well as for delivering on their net zero commitments and 2030 emissions reduction targets, particularly through policies to end coal power, halt deforestation and transition to clean vehicles 2. Delivering for climate vulnerable countries by ensuring commitments on adaptation and loss and damage are honoured. Working with donors to make progress towards doubling adaptation finance by 2025 and developing a clear proposal and funding for the Santiago Network by COP27 3. Get finance flowing. The UK through the COP Presidency will help ensure countries, international financial institutions and private financial institutions deliver on the commitments they have made to meet the $ 100bn goal. And we will aim to increase public-private partnerships to support climate action, building on the South African Just Energy Transition Partnership. We will support Parties to make progress on the post-2025 climate finance goal 4. Working together and continuing to be an inclusive Presidency. Pushing for further action across critical sectors and turning promises into clear delivery plans through established forums and international councils. The UK through the COP Presidency will work hand-in-hand with the COP27 President Egypt, COP28 President UAE, our international partners, business, youth and civil society, to deliver our priorities and keep climate at the top of the international agenda COP President Alok Sharma is expected to say: “At COP26”The Glasgow Climate Pact was a product of international cooperation and a practical demonstration of Global Britain in action. “There is no doubt that the commitments we secured at COP26 were historic. Yet at the moment they are just words on a page. And unless we honour the promises made, to turn the commitments in the Glasgow Climate Pact into action, they will wither on the vine. We will have mitigated no risks. Seized no opportunities. We will have fractured the trust built between nations. And 1.5 degrees will slip from our grasp.”So my absolute focus for the UK Presidency year is delivery.” Mr Sharma recently visited both COP27 President Egypt, and COP28 President UAE, to underline the importance of building strong partnerships with the next two hosts for the summit. This week, he will meet the UNFCCC to discuss the implementation of the measures agreed with Glasgow. He will also address the Major Economies Forum and continue to ramp up pressure on the rich donor nations to support climate vulnerable countries. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Government of UK. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com )) Language: ~ENGLISH
  21

 21 : COP21_UK255
An environmental group is asking Harborough residents to make a New Year’s resolution to make their lifestyle greener this year. Not for profit organisation Sustainable Harborough has spent the past three years launching initiatives in and around the town to encourage residents to become more aware of the impact they have on the environment. Gavin Fletcher, from Sustainable Harborough, said: “It’s all too easy to think that whatever we do won’t make any difference to the environment. Large scale environmental initiatives such as the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris have made everybody more aware of the need for change on a global level.”But if we all take a few small steps, it can make a significant positive difference over time. “I know of several people who have also made commitments to volunteer for local organisations.” HYPERLINK www.sustainableharborough.co.uk
  22

 22 : COP22_UK9
Senior ABB managers are to contribute to high-level discussions on the enabling power of digital technologies to transform economies and meet climate goals at the COP 22 conference, which this year takes place in Morocco from November 7-18. The event marks a turning point in the global effort to reduce carbon emissions as the landmark Paris Climate Change Agreement, agreed at COP21 last year, will enter into force during the conference. ABB Executive Committee member for the region Asia, Middle East and Africa, Frank Duggan, will join senior policymakers to champion energy efficiency as the most cost-effective way to reduce the environmental impact of development. As a key member of the United Nations Environment Programme’ s (UNEP) global action on improving appliance and equipment efficiency, ABB is helping to improve energy efficiency standards for electric motors and transformers, which accelerate energy savings. Duggan will also highlight the potential of renewables and microgrids in Africa. On a continent where almost 600 million people lack access to electricity, energy will be the lifeblood for its ongoing development, he said. In the past, only minerals and oil and gas were seen as ’ treasures’ in Africa. Today, the continent understands that solar power, wind power, geothermal power, and large scale hydro power are essential in helping drive it towards a robust electrically powered future. At ABB, we have available today the technology to help remote or isolated areas connect to a reliable and clean electricity supply. A good example is a microgrid solution we are providing for the Nairobi logistics hub of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), Duggan added. The ICRC microgrid solution incorporates both solar power and diesel to ensure a reliable power supply in a region where outages are common, and reduce carbon emissions. It is essential that the ICRC hub can rely on uninterrupted power, as it is responsible for delivering food, medicines and relief supplies across the African continent. At COP22 , ABB’ s head of microgrids, Maxine Ghavi, will discuss the expanding use of microgrid technology and integration of renewables with co-founder and pilot of Solar Impulse, Bertrand Piccard, and ICRC Head of Delegation Pascal Mauchle. Ghavi and Piccard will offer insights into running the world without consuming the earth using clean technology. ABB experts will be available at the company’ s booth with cutting-edge products like YuMi, the world’ s first truly collaborative dual-arm industrial robot, ABB’ s electric vehicle fast-charging infrastructure, and demonstrations of microgrid and wind technology. As a pioneering technology leader at the forefront of the Energy and Fourth Industrial Revolutions, ABB is uniquely positioned to help Africa build clean, low-carbon, safe and effective modern energy systems, as well as to help utilities, industry, and transport and infrastructure providers take advantage of the latest technologies to support the continent’ s development.
  23

 23 : COP23_UK118
“We are witnessing the severe impacts of climate change throughout the world”, said the Executive Secretary of UN Climate Change, Patricia Espinosa, at a press conference. “Every credible scientific source is telling us that these impacts will only get worse if we do not address climate change and it also tells us that our window of time for addressing it is closing very soon,” she added. “We need to dramatically increase our ambitions,” stressed the UNFCCC chief, outlining three priorities. First, all stakeholders - including governments, non-governmental organizations, businesses, investors and citizens - must accelerate climate action by 2020. Second, she said, the international community must complete the Paris Agreement guidelines, or operating manual, to unleash the potential of the accord. Third, conditions must be improved to enable countries to be more ambitious in determining their own national policies to slow down global warming. At the UN Climate Change Conference ( COP23 ) held last November under the leadership of Fiji, nations agreed to accelerate and complete their work to put in place the guidelines - officially known as the Paris Agreement Work Programme (PAWP) - at COP24 in Katowice, Poland next December. At this Bonn meeting, which will run through 10 May, Governments will start drafting texts to be finalized at COP24. Finishing off the operating manual is also necessary to assess whether the world is on track to achieve the goals of the historic Paris Agreement limiting greenhouse gas emissions, while pursuing efforts to keep the temperature rise to less than 1.5’b0C. Throughout this year, countries will also focus on how they can scale up their climate ambition and implementation in the pre-2020 period. All countries share the view that climate action prior to 2020 is essential. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  24

 24 : COP22_UK225
Text of report in English by South Korean news agency Yonhap on 2 September VLADIVOSTOK, Russia, 2 Sept: President Park Geun-hye arrived in Vladivostok, Russia, on Friday [2 September] to attend an economic forum and a summit with her Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin, as part of her eight-day trip that also includes visits to China and Laos. In the eastern Russian port city, Park will attend the annual Eastern Economic Forum (EEF), a venue to discuss ways to bolster regional cooperation in developing Russia’s resource-rich Far East. Under the main theme, “Opening up the Russian Far East,” the second EEF will bring together some 2,500 participants from 32 countries, including China, Japan and the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). At the forum on Saturday, Park will deliver a keynote speech to put forward her vision for cooperation with Russia in the development of the Russian Far East, her office Cheong Wa Dae said. After the forum, Park will sit down with Putin for a summit to discuss cooperation on an array of issues, including joint efforts to denuclearize North Korea and curb its provocations. The agenda also includes a set of global issues, such as terrorism and climate change. The recent decision by Seoul and Washington to deploy an advanced US antimissile system on South Korean soil is expected to be discussed at the summit, since it has emerged as a source of tension in bilateral relations. During her summit with Putin, Park will likely reiterate that the THAAD deployment is an inevitable, self-defence measure to counter Pyongyang’s evolving nuclear and missile threats, and that it will only target the provocative state, observers said. The South Korean leader is also expected to use the summit to restore trust with Moscow. The bilateral relationship has apparently chilled since Russia’s annexation of Crimea in 2014, which Seoul, in tandem with the international community, maintains breached international law and undermined Ukraine’s territorial integrity. The suspension of the “Rajin-Khasan” project, a three-way logistics scheme involving the two Koreas and Russia, has added fresh tensions to two-way ties. The project got bogged down after Pyongyang’s nuclear test in January and long-range rocket launch the following month. This week’s summit between Park and Putin will be the fourth one. The two leaders held talks on the sidelines of a summit of the Group of 20 (G-20) in Saint Petersburg, Russia, in September 2013; during Putin’s visit to Seoul in November 2013; and at the UN conference on climate change in November 2015. Following Park’s visit to Russia, she will travel to Hangzhou, eastern China, to attend the G-20 summit. The two-day event, slated to begin Sunday, will be held under the main theme, “Towards an Innovative, Invigorated, Interconnected and Inclusive World Economy.” At the summit, Park plans to voice her concerns over the recrudescence of protectionist tendencies and call for more active efforts by the G-20 to expand free trade, Cheong Wa Dae said. From Wednesday to Thursday, Park will attend the South Korea-ASEAN summit, the ASEAN-plus-three summit, which involves South Korea, China and Japan, and the East Asia Summit (EAS), all of which will take place in the Laotian capital of Vientiane. The EAS is a summit that includes the US, Russia, India, Australia and New Zealand, along with the ASEAN-plus-three members. Following the multilateral summits, Park will begin her official visit to Laos, which was arranged on the invitation of Laotian President Bounnhang Vorachith. On Friday, the leaders of South Korea and Laos will hold a summit to discuss trade, investment, development and other areas of mutual concern, the presidential office said. Source: Yonhap news agency in English 1151 gmt 2 Sep 16
  25

 25 : COP21_UK305
India, one of the world’ s largest coal users, will cut back on its investments in the fuel if the new climate deal due to be struck next week in Paris delivers more money to help it shift to cleaner sources of energy such as solar power, a senior negotiator said on Wednesday. We’ ve made it very clear that solar and wind is our first commitment, said Ajay Mathur, director general of India’ s Bureau of Energy Efficiency, at the Paris talks, HYPERLINK known as COP21 . Hydro, nuclear, all of these non-carbon sources are what we will develop to the largest extent we can, he told reporters. But it has to be affordable. He was speaking as campaigners from a fossil fuel divestment movement said the number of investors shunning coal, gas and oil has surged ahead of the Paris conference. At least 500 institutions with more than $3.4tn in assets have pledged to avoid or cut holdings in fossil fuels, said activist groups 350.org and Divest-Invest. That represents a big jump from a year ago, when 181 institutions representing about $50bn in assets were committed to such a step, they said. A spate of city councils, banks, pension funds, churches and universities have pledged to cut back or shun coal investments this year. One of the most striking commitments came last month when Allianz, the German insurance group, said it would pull more than € 4bn ($4.3bn) from companies with coal businesses. Earlier this year, the Norwegian parliament decided the country’ s $857bn sovereign wealth fund should withdraw from any company in which coal represents more than 30 per cent of the business. Both moves came in the wake of a divestment campaign that began on US college campuses more than two years ago in an effort to make fossil fuel holdings as unpopular as tobacco or investments in apartheid-era South Africa. Churches and wealthy individuals with an interest in climate change then joined, including the heirs to the Rockefeller oil fortune. The momentum in this divestment campaign is accelerating day by day, Stephen Heintz, president of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, told journalists at the Paris climate conference on Wednesday. There is a moral imperative to save the planet and to do so we need to end the fossil fuel era now, he said. Benjamin Sporton, chief executive of the World Coal Association said that although the campaigners’ multi-trillion dollar headline figures seemed large, a lot of the institutions and funds with these assets did not currently have coal holdings and the amount of money actually being pulled out of coal was relatively small. While there are companies and funds saying they want to get out of coal, there are plenty of others that are remaining invested, he told the Financial Times. This was especially the case in South East Asia and in large countries such as India, where governments are planning to continue using coal for electricity. Mr Sporton said he hoped the Paris climate talks would help drive the use of technology that allows coal to be burnt more efficiently and cleanly, a chief aim of his members. Coal companies have borne the brunt of the divestment push because coal produces more carbon emissions when burnt than other fossil fuels such as natural gas. But it remains an abundant and cheap source of energy in many developing countries and is the biggest source of electricity globally, accounting for a 41 per cent share of the world’ s electricity, according to the International Energy Agency. That global share is expected to fall to just over 30 per cent by 2030, the agency says, as fast-growing renewable energy sources supply a larger proportion of electricity. However, divestments have not been the only feature of this year’ s assault on coal. Banks have made public their refusal to fund some coal investments. In Australia, where India’ s Adani group wants to build the country’ s largest proposed coal project, Standard Chartered has said it will no longer be involved in the increasingly controversial development. Banks including Deutsche and HSBC had already steered clear. And multilateral commitments to the coal industry have been reined in. Last month member states of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development agreed limits on export subsidies for coal-fired power stations, following unilateral initiatives to curb export credits by countries including the UK and US. But divestment has its critics. Anne Stausboll, chief executive of Calpers, the California state pension system, has called lobbying for divestment flawed and said it is more constructive to engage with companies where the fund invests. However California approved a divestment law in October. Calpers will evaluate divestment as outlined in the bill , the fund said. As of June it had $57m invested in 27 thermal coal companies. Listen to the HYPERLINK World Weekly podcast
  26

 26 : COP23_UK7
November 8, 2017 United Nation’s (UN) annual climate conference (COP) started in Bonn, Germany on Monday. The conference will be attended by more than 20,000 delegates. Fortum participates both in the conference and Sustainable Innovation Forum 2017 - the largest side event organised by Climate Action and UN Environment. Kari Kankaanp’e4’e4, Fortum’s Senior Manager, Climate Affairs, will be joining the delegation of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) during the second week of the COP23 . “Fortum is strongly committed to climate change mitigation and actions towards a cleaner world. As a leading clean-energy company we want to be involved in COP where policy makers, regulators, commerce and industry and civil society meet. We see the conference as an excellent opportunity to take part in the discussion on global climate and energy policy,” says Kari Kankaanp’e4’e4. Fortum one of the main partners of the Sustainable Innovation Forum 2017 Sustainable Innovation Forum (SIF) will take place in Bonn on 13 - 14 November. SIF is the largest business-focused side event during COP23 and is expected to gather together over 600 participants. Pekka Lundmark, Fortum’s President and CEO, will be joining the opening panel of the Forum on Accelerating the Energy Transition on 13 November, together with representatives of Siemens, Orsted and ministers from Norway and Scotland. In addition, Fortum has an exhibition stand in SIF showcasing the clean energy solutions, presenting Fortum’s climate and energy policy messages and offering an opportunity to network with the experts. “The recent reports on climate change by the scientific community are alarming and show the urgency of measures needed to combat climate change. We need to speed up the transition to a low-carbon electricity system, to improve the resource efficiency and to promote the circular economy. The three most important challenges for all energy producers at the moment are decarbonisation, security of supply and affordability,” says Pekka Lundmark. Read more: Follow discussions in Twitter: # COP23 and #SIF17 The COP is the supreme decision-making body of the Climate Convention. All states that are parties to the Convention are represented at the COP. In addition to governments, a large number of businesses, NGOs, cities and other stakeholders participate in the conference. COP23 is focusing on the development of the implementation rules of the Paris Agreement signed in 2015.
  27

 27 : COP25_UK166
HYPERLINK The second Polish-British Business, Trade and Investment Forum took place on June 27-28 in Warsaw, under the lead theme “Building Clean Growth Together”. Participants of the Forum attended a series of workshops and expert discussions on clean growth, offshore energy, e-mobility and green finance, as well as on Polish-British trade relations. The Forum was attended and opened by Minister of Investment at the Department for International Trade, Graham Stuart. The Minister encouraged participants of the Forum to explore the economic benefits of clean growth, and said: The Department for International Trade wants to encourage more British companies to come to Poland, because it is the fastest growing major economy in Europe, and we’re also encouraging Polish companies to invest in the UK [. . . ] Polish companies are doing well, their economy’s growing fast, and they are building their confidence and capability. If they want to go global, the best place to come is to the UK. One of the highlights of the Forum was an announcement that UK sustainable technology firm Johnson Matthey will soon open a new facility in the Polish city of Konin. A letter of intent was presented by Peter Dickson, eLNO Operations Director at Johnson Matthey, and Polish Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Jadwiga Emilewicz. The factory will produce eLNO, a next generation cathode material for batteries with high energy density. New batteries based on this technology will enable a step forward in battery electric vehicle performance and contribute to the development of electro-mobility in Poland. The Polish-British Business, Trade and Investment (BTI) Forum is a unique platform for Polish and British businesses to connect with a broad range of potential partners, clients and investors, and to hear from experts and analysts about the latest trends and challenges in Polish-British trade relations. The forum was called for by the Prime Ministers of both countries at the UK-Poland intergovernmental consultations in December 2017. The first edition of the Forum brought together over 200 high-level representatives from both countries, who participated in a variety of sessions dedicated to business trends and opportunities in the UK and Poland. This year’s Forum focused on the topic of clean growth, under the lead theme “Building Clean Growth Together”. The UK remains committed to domestic and international efforts to tackle climate change, and cooperation between the UK and Poland on matters related to clean growth is closer than ever. The two countries have recently launched a global initiative for fostering zero-emission transport, ahead of the United Nations Climate Change Conference COP24, held in December 2018 in Poland. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  28

 28 : COP24_UK77
What was agreed at COP24 ? Countries HYPERLINK settled on most of the tricky elements of the “rulebook” for putting the ~ HYPERLINK 2015 Paris agreement Why did it take so long? There was a row over carbon credits, which are awarded to countries for their emissions-cutting efforts and their carbon sinks, such as forests, which absorb carbon. These credits count towards countries’ emissions-cutting targets. Brazil, which hopes to benefit from its large rainforest cover, insisted on a new form of wording that critics said would allow double counting of credits, undermining the integrity of the system. This issue has been put off until next year. What wasn’t agreed? Largely absent from these talks, which had a technical focus, was the key question of how countries will step up their targets on cutting emissions. On current targets, the world is set for 3C of warming from pre-industrial levels, which scientists say would be disastrous, resulting in droughts, floods, HYPERLINK sea level rises and the decline of agricultural productivity. When will that be agreed? The key deadline is 2020, when countries must show they have met targets set a decade ago for cutting their emissions, and when they must affirm new, much tougher targets. What does the science say? The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the global body of the world’s leading climate scientists, warned two months ago How long have we got? If we extrapolate from the IPCC’s findings, the world has little more than a decade to bring emissions under control and halve them, which would help to stabilise the climate. Are we getting there? After years in which the world’s carbon emissions appeared to be stabilising, they are on the rise again. Coal use continues and oil is still the engine of much of the world’s economy. Clean energy is coming on-stream at a faster rate than many predicted, and the costs of it have come down rapidly, but its adoption needs to be speeded up. Infrastructure, such as energy generation plants, transport networks and buildings, is a central issue: infrastructure built now to rely on high-carbon energy effectively locks in high emissions for decades to come. Some people are also saying we need to invest in projects to HYPERLINK remove carbon from the atmosphere Were countries united at the talks? The US, Russia, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait joined forces to prevent the conference fully embracing the IPCC’s findings, watering down a statement to a weak commendation of the timing of the scientists’ report. Australia joined with the US in a celebration of coal, and Brazil signalled its HYPERLINK climate scepticism under Jair Bolsonaro by withdrawing its offer to host next year’s talks. But the EU, a handful of other developed countries and scores of developing nations including the poorest and most vulnerable affirmed that they would strive to meet the IPCC’s advice on limiting warming to no more than 1.5C. What happens next? The UN will meet again next year in Chile to thrash out the final elements of the Paris rulebook and begin work on future emissions targets. But the crunch conference will come in 2020, when countries must meet the deadline for their current emissions commitments and produce new targets for 2030 and beyond that go further towards meeting scientific advice. That conference may be held in the UK or Italy, both of which have bid to be hosts. The UK’s intention in offering to host HYPERLINK is to signal it will retain its role on the world stage after Brexit. The event may also provide a welcome change from wranglings over Brexit and intractable trade deals. But whoever hosts will have a diplomatic mountain to climb, if the fractious nature of this year’s talks is anything to go by.
  29

 29 : COP24_UK269
Hotel Hilton: Our Commitment to Fighting Climate Change. Climate change is top of mind for much of the world this week as global leaders meet in Poland for the 24th UN climate change conference ( COP24 ). There’s one takeaway from the surrounding conversations, news coverage and research reports: climate change is a serious problem that is already having a tangible impact on the world and people’s lives. The recently released Fourth National Climate Assessment reaffirms, ‘the impacts of global climate change are already being felt in the United States and are projected to intensify in the future.’ The Assessment goes on to explain that travel and tourism is one of several industries expected to be ‘degraded by the impacts of climate change.’ As a global business, we see the impacts of climate change every day. From hurricanes to droughts, wildfires to floods, our Team Members and guests are facing an increasing number of extreme weather events and natural disasters caused or amplified by global climate change. At Hilton, we take the threat of global climate change very seriously and we’ve made combatting it a top business priority. Over the past decade, we’ve made promising strides in curbing our environmental impact, including reducing our carbon emissions by 30%, energy consumption by 21%, water use by 20% and waste by 31%. However, we are conscious there’s so much more we and the industry can do. This is why we’ve taken our corporate responsibility efforts to another level. This May, we became the first major hospitality brand to set science-based carbon reduction targets approved by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Our carbon targets align with the carbon reductions stipulated in the Paris Climate Agreement, and they are just one part of our broader Travel with Purpose commitment to cut our global environmental footprint in half and double our social impact investment by 2030. In order to fulfill these commitments and redefine sustainable travel and tourism, Hilton continues to explore new ways to reduce carbon emissions and improve energy efficiency across our business. An example of this is the new photovoltaic solar array currently being installed at the Grand Wailea - A Waldorf Astoria Resort. Once completed, the 1.5 megawatt solar array will be the largest on the island of Maui and will significantly reduce our carbon emissions by providing clean renewable energy to the hotel. The Millennium Hilton Bangkok has also installed a solar-powered hot water heater that doesn’t require grid electricity to heat the hotel’s water. We’re also testing ‘smart’ technologies including Hilton’s Connected Room, which will enable guests to sync air conditioning and lighting preferences with their schedule and will allow our hotel operators to monitor how their hotels are managing energy in real time. In conjunction with our award-winning LightStay system, Connected Room will help us track how effectively we are reducing our environmental impact. However, with every climate change report and conference, we’re reminded of how quickly this critical global issue is progressing - and how serious the impacts will be for our industry. As chairman of the World Travel and Tourism Council, Chris Nassetta, Hilton’s president and CEO, has dedicated his platform to fostering sustainable tourism and is calling on the industry to make big changes now. We hope you will join us in combatting climate change. To our industry peers, let’s make sustainable tourism a priority and work together to scale solutions. To our guests, we ask that you Travel with Purpose by continuing to demand and expect sustainability not just from us but all of your travel companies. We all want to enjoy the amazing places the world has to offer - now and in the future. Hilton Corporate Communications McLean, Virginia 22102 HYPERLINK mailto:hiltonpr@hilton.com hiltonpr@hilton.com [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  30

 30 : COP26_UK190
Kyle Academy pupils have presented their unique climate smart social enterprise business idea in GlasgowE2s Strathclyde Union after reaching the finals of a national COP26 themed DragonsE2 Den competition. Mary Bryne, Head Teacher, said: E2Kyle Academy has a strong tradition of sustainable Eco projects and we are extremely proud of the work completed by our Caring CafC3 in previous years and the fact that itE2s new re-branded Greener successor is a finalist in the Cop26 DragonE2s Den is witness to its longevity as a viable and worthwhile social enterprise.E2 The event is being delivered as part of the E2After the PandemicE2 COP26 programme and is one of a suite of After the Pandemic events taking place at Strathclyde Union during the COP26 climate conference this November. The DragonsE2 Den event in particular is being organised by Social Enterprise Academy, which since 2007 has delivered Social Enterprise Schools, innovated in partnership with the Scottish Government. Emily Mnyayi, Head of Education at Social Enterprise Academy, said: E2Our Climate Change DragonsE2 Den is a truly fantastic opportunity for young people in Scotland to be a part of this moment in history and take action against climate change. E2With Glasgow hosting COP26 , this special event is the perfect chance for young people to embrace social enterprise and focus their ideas on sustainability so that they may respond to what is not only an environmental challenge, but also a social one. E2We are always fascinated to see the innovative ideas coming out of our Social Enterprise School programme and this event will once again highlight how important social enterprise is in schools to embrace our young people as future change makers.E2 Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  31

 31 : COP26_UK125
HYPERLINK here . The big topic at COP26 is how the world’ s leaders will commit to the agreement made five years ago in Paris to keep global warming to well below 2’b0C. The impact of allowing just 0.5’b0C extra rise in temperature is critical - you can see more about this in our HYPERLINK explainer and HYPERLINK infographic here. MMO also has a presence at MMO, with the vital work of Marine Plans in addressing climate change demonstrated in a virtual presenation (see below) by by Paul Gilliland, Head of Marine Planning as part of the COP26 HYPERLINK virtual ocean pavilion HYPERLINK v=PkBZWgAJr6Y virtual presentation MMO also plays a leading role in ocean protection and management as part of the UK Government’ s HYPERLINK Blue Belt Programme HYPERLINK virtual ocean pavilion The Blue Belt programme has also supported the UK Overseas Territories with planning and materials for their event on Nature Day in the UK Government Pavilion and made a short video (see below) to introduce the role of the Programme in helping to understand and mitigate climate change impacts across the UK Overseas Territories: HYPERLINK v=dx-mMquT3pM short video Both MMO and Blue Belt videos feature in the HYPERLINK virtual ocean pavilion COP26 Presidency - Ocean Climate Science and Evidence booth. Registration is free with access to live ocean events and on demand content. For the detail of events going on, here is the official programme: HYPERLINK UK-Presidency-Pavilion-at- HYPERLINK COP26
-Event-Programme.pdf HYPERLINK COP26 HYPERLINK website . Share this page HYPERLINK u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.gov.uk%2Fgovernment%2Fnews%2Fmmo-and-cop26 Share on Facebook HYPERLINK url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.gov.uk%2Fgovernment%2Fnews%2Fmmo-and- cop26&text=MMO%20AND%20COP26 Share on Twitter Published 2 November 2021 Language: ~ENGLISH
  32

 32 : COP26_UK341
By BBC Monitoring The 2021 United Nations climate change conference ( COP26 ) that was held in Glasgow between 31 October and 13 November has received limited and largely sceptical coverage in Kremlin-controlled media. Furthermore, the tone and rhetoric used by state TV channels, as well as by many newspapers, were harsher than those adopted by Russian officials representing the country at the COP26 forum. Scant TV coverage In the primetime news bulletins on Russia’s three main national TV channels, the Glasgow conference was covered only at the start of its first week (1-2 November), when President Vladimir Putin addressed the forum via a video link, after which the event dropped off the primetime news agenda altogether. After the first week of the conference, the main TV networks’ weekly news programmes were roundly dismissive of the COP26 summit. Presenter Dmitry Kiselyov on official Rossiya 1 TV’s flagship Vesti Nedeli programme, described it as a “bad circus”, which the West was using to “lecture everyone” and to “seek its own advantage”. The channel’s UK correspondent said the COP26 event had been an “unavoidable failure” because there was “hypocrisy” everywhere. “Lies, mutual accusations and a public divvying up of billions - this is all that the Scottish conference in climate will be remembered for,” Centre TV, a national TV channel owned by the Moscow city government, proclaimed. “This event is, in effect, a small-scale repeat of the story that the world has been living through during the pandemic: a problem that - one would have thought - should bring everyone together because it is a common calamity has, on the contrary, set everybody even more at odds with each other,” Gazprom-Media’s NTV channel said, adding that “green-world slogans that are popular with Western politicians do not stand the test of reality”. Papers sceptical too In the press, assessments of the Glasgow forum were largely sceptical too. An editorial in the privately-owned centrist Nezavisimaya Gazeta noted that “the meeting in Glasgow, which brought together the leaders of most of the countries, has shown that contradictions are only deepening”. In an op-ed for a popular weekly tabloid, Argumenty i Fakty, pro-Kremlin pundit Sergei Markov summed up the atmosphere at the Glasgow conference as “utter duplicity”. He said: “Looking at Western leaders, most people realise: they are not only lying but are also doing enormous damage to the environment.” “The leitmotif of COP26 is utter mistrust of its participants towards each other,” the leftist nationalist Zavtra newspaper proclaimed. Critical of the West, it also sounded a dismissive note about developing countries, saying that “countries without resources and technologies will arrive [at the conference] with cap in hand and post-colonial grievances”. Pro-Kremlin Izvestia daily concluded that COP26 “did not live up to the high expectations placed upon it”. Official statements At the same time, statements made by Russian officials at the COP26 conference were far more positive. In a statement circulated on 14 November, Russian presidential envoy on climate issues Ruslan Edelgeriyev welcomed what he described as “the main achievement of COP26”, namely the agreed rules for implementing the Paris Agreement. He also noted that Russia had managed to secure the terms of forest climate projects it had sought. A representative of the Economic Development Ministry on the Russian delegation told the Kommersant daily that the Climate Pact adopted in Glasgow “had turned out to be balanced”. While Economic Development Minister Maxim Reshetnikov told a TV interview in the penultimate day of the forum that he felt more optimistic about its outcomes than he had been at the start. “What matters to us is that we are present here with our very clear policy. We understand our interests,” he said. See also Analysis: Russia’s views on climate change Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  33

 33 : COP25_UK86
CLIMATE activists are meeting in Hereford city centre today as they join a nationwide campaign Extinction Rebellion groups from across Herefordshire will be bringing climate crisis ‘carols’ and street theatre to High Town between 10am and 3pm, in a bid to raise awareness of climate change in the run-up to the general election. The 12 Days of Crisis campaign coincides with the run-up to the December 12 election and the United Nations ’ climate change conference being held in Madrid. “Our action in Hereford aims to ensure all voters are aware of the facts and issues around the Climate Crisis, of the necessity for urgent action globally and locally, and also of the positions of every local candidate on how action should be taken to meet these challenges,” a campaign spokesperson said. Each of the party leaders will be theatrically represented at the High Town event, although a spokesperson said the Extinction Rebellion is not party political.. “We are calling on all party candidates to recognise the climate and ecological emergency and sign up to our Three Demands Bill,” the spokesperson said. “This calls for them to tell the truth, declare a climate and ecological emergency and communicate the urgency for change, to act now to halt biodiversity loss and reduce greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2025, and to upgrade democracy by being led by the decisions of a citizens’ assembly on climate and ecological justice.”
  34

 34 : COP26_UK313
World leaders are gathering in Glasgow today for a summit at the start of theC2crunch UN COP26 climate conference. Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who will welcome leaders to Glasgow for the Cop26 talks, will tell them that humanity has E2long since run down the clock on climate changeE2 and must act now to tackle the crisis. Who is in Glasgow for COP26 today? Around 120 heads of state and government are set to attend the world leadersE2 summit at the start of the Cop26 talks, where countries are under pressure to increase action in the next decade to tackle dangerous warming. The Prince of Wales, who is addressing leaders at an opening ceremony for the talks alongside Mr Johnson, is expected to stress the urgency of action E2 calling for the world to be on a E2war-like footingE2. What is happening at COP26 today? According to the official COP26 schedule, the following is planned for today: Opening Ceremony “World Leaders are invited to an Opening Ceremony, hosted by the UK Prime Minister, to welcome them to the World Leaders Summit of COP26 .”The ceremony features creative and cultural moments. It will be a significant, symbolic and impactful moment, putting climate action on the global stage.” C2 Today leaders from around the world are gathering in Glasgow for # COP26 They will come together to make clear their commitment to tackle climate change and signal ambition for the summit. Learn more #TogetherForOurPlanet E2 COP26 (@ COP26 ) November 1, 2021 C2 National Statements “This is an opportunity for leaders to set out the ambitious actions that they are taking domestically and internationally, and to send a clear message to ministers, negotiators and observers to work together in Glasgow to accelerate urgent action this decade.” Leaders’ Event “The next decade is critical to increase ambition to keep 1.5C2C in reach and adapt to the impact of climate change. Across mitigation, adaptation and finance, COP26 must be a turning point. Global leaders will come together to show that ambition and discuss what must be done to deliver on the goals of the Paris Agreement.”The leaders will hear the latest scientific reporting and examine the state of progress, hearing success stories, but also what is at stake for countries across the world if we do not take action, together, now.” Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  35

 35 : COP24_UK219
The funny thing is, IT - you know, IT - is not even the biggest story. Nor are the riots in France by the Gilets Jaunes. That title goes to Sir David Attenborough. Fear not, he’e2(EURO)(TM)s not just backed the Mussolini for Uxbridge and South Ruislip, Boris Johnson. As I say, that’e2(EURO)(TM)s not really the big story. Instead, the real tale is about climate and our survival. For many years, people in the green movement urged him to speak about the scientific fact of climate change in more newsworthy terms. He resisted on the grounds people had heard enough of disaster, and it had become a turn-off. This is something the green movement knew itself - the 1980s blitz of apocalyptic headlines around the newly discovered hole in the ozone layer had bumped up eco issues on the political agenda, but has also made people doubt it was quite that bad. Being told the end of the world is nigh is both very alarming and a bit dull without calamity to prove the point. By the 1990s, the green movement was trying to move away from ’e2(EURO)oeWe are all doomed’e2(EURO) to more-manageable ideas such as recycling. The drama of Greenpeace driving speedboats at whaling ships or oil platforms had worn off - though quite why the greens were to blame for the tropes of 24-hour news media was not entirely clear. Eco activists knew they had to play the media, but struggled with the fact that all their policies, and many of the threatened outcomes, were of an astonishing scale. They had to take huge stories and make them look small. Attenborough, a thoroughly neutral figure, which makes him the best politician for the early 21st Century, had resisted tales of eco disaster. Instead of shouting gloom through the screen, he showed us the world in a detail we’e2(EURO)(TM)d never seen. His documentary truth was greater than any sermon - he cut through prejudice about eco issues by showing life as it was. This year was the year he changed, and the debate changed because of it. The nice man who whispers about animals is the one now telling us we face catastrophe. We are the livestock in the background. ’e2(EURO)oeRight now we are facing a man-made disaster of global scale, our greatest threat in thousands of years - climate change,’e2(EURO) Sir David told a conference in Katowice, Poland. ’e2(EURO)oeIf we don’e2(EURO)(TM)t take action, the collapse of our civilisations and the extinction of much of the natural world is on the horizon. The human brain appears programmed to deny endings. We know we are going to die, for example, but that diagnosis always surprises. We imagine pain happens to others, and death isn’e2(EURO)(TM)t for us. So with the planet, nobody thinks it’e2(EURO)(TM)s going to happen to their Earth. Attenborough is trying to tell us that, like cancer, like heart disease, like the inevitable business of death, just because climate change is not catastrophic yet, it will happen. Not the end of the world - but the end of the human world. The planet will spin, nature will continue. It’e2(EURO)(TM)s only our version that will no longer exist. Our star, among a billion others, will still be in the universe, but we may not. COP24 ). ’e2(EURO)oeThe world’e2(EURO)(TM)s people have spoken. Time is running out. They want you, the decision-makers, to act now. Leaders of the world, you must lead. ’e2(EURO)oeThe continuation of civilisations and the natural world upon which we depend is in your hands,’e2(EURO) he implored. COP24 effectively ends today, the delegates gone and the declarations signed. The World Bank has doubled its budget for climate projects to $200 billion, the German Government are to spend more on green matters, and success stories about nations cutting CO2 emissions have been shared. However, the most authoritative report on the world’e2(EURO)(TM)s climate was not adopted. The United States, Russia, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia objected to the IPCC report, which says the world has missed the target of 1.5’c2’b0C warming and is now heading for 3’c2’b0C above the average for the past few millennia. The political rejection was odd, given the report had been commissioned by COP21 in 2015. The study concludes ’e2(EURO)oerapid, far-reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society’e2(EURO) are needed if we are to avert disaster. Political populism feeds off resistance to
’e2(EURO)oerapid’e2(EURO) change. Notoriously, Donald Trump pulled the USA out of the Paris Agreement of 2015, and has since mocked other nations for playing the green game. He advocates coal-powered energy production and industry, knowing this to be a major source of CO2. Those Paris riots are driven by people angry at increased fuel prices - which France has had to delay. And quite what Brexit does for the most important issue of the age is not clear. Thank Earth for Sir David, and reject populism.
  36

 36 : COP26_UK23
March 28, 2022 On March 24, the British Embassy Ashgabat was delighted to organise an online conference in Ashgabat, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Turkmenistan and the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator in Turkmenistan. The conference focussed on the outcomes and achievements of last year’s COP26 climate summit in Glasgow and was an opportunity to generate new ideas and improve cooperation to take forward the Glasgow Climate Pact. The conference was a continuation of the high-level roundtable that the British Embassy held in March 2021 in Ashgabat, ahead of the COP26 . Building on the momentum and direction set out at COP26 , representatives discussed the best ways to deliver stronger sectoral action to accelerate Turkmenistan’s transition to a low-carbon, more resource-efficient and sustainable economy. The conference helped international partners and donors better understand plans the Turkmenistan government has for decarbonisation and reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. These plans are outlined in the final draft of their new NDC, as part of their commitments under the Paris Agreement. Participants from both the UK and Turkmenistan announced new climate change initiatives between national and international partners. Those attending the event included representatives of the ministries of Turkmenistan, the UN agencies, foreign diplomatic missions, international organisations and development partners, financial institutions, university students and others. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Turkmenistan moderated the event. The Turkmen Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment Protection announced that the country’s next set of climate change plans would soon be submitted to the UN. These plans include projects to reduce both carbon dioxide and methane emissions. UN agencies pledged to continue working with Turkmenistan to address challenges of mapping emissions, changing legislation, provide technical assistance and support education. Nick Bridge, the British Foreign Secretary’s Special Representative for Climate Change, stressed the need to go clean and green and deliver on our promises faster. Kenan Poleo, the UK’s Trade Commissioner for Central Asia, highlighted that change can support growth - in the last 30 years the UK has cut emissions by 44% while growing its economy 78%. The British Ambassador, Lucia Wilde, reaffirmed the Embassy’s commitment to support both the implementation of climate change policies and support for Turkmenistan to introduce more green energy technologies. Star speakers at the conference were youth representatives who talked of the need for action to ensure their future health, prosperity and well-being. Participants identified joint priorities and new areas of climate cooperation in the run-up to COP27. Climate change and increasing greenhouse gas emissions negatively affects the health and well-being of people and countries around the world. As such, experts at the event agreed that it is important to learn from each other and continue a productive dialogue and exchange of professional experience in this important area. At the end of the conference, experts and participants thanked the organisers and highlighted how important it was to continue these discussions in order to help the transition of Turkmenistan to a green economy. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  37

 37 : COP23_UK156
The African Development Bank achieved a 100% investment in renewable energy in 2017, a major landmark in its commitment to clean energy and efficiency. Power generation projects with a cumulative 1,400 megawatts exclusively from renewables were approved during the year, with plans to increase support for renewable energy projects in 2018 under the New Deal on Energy for Africa. According to Bank President, Akinwumi Adesina, ‘’We are clearly leading on renewable energy. We will help Africa unlock its full energy potential, while developing a balanced energy mix to support industrialization. Our commitment is to ensure 100% climate screening for all Bank financed projects.” The share of renewable energy projects as a portion of the Bank’s portfolio of power generation investments increased from 14% in 2007-2011, to 64% in 2012-2016. The Africa Renewable Energy Initiative (AREI) whose goal is to deliver 300 Gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy in 2030 and 10 GW by 2020, is now based within the Bank, as requested by African Heads of State and Government. The G7 has promised to commit US$ 10 billion to support the initiative, which came out of COP21 and subsequently approved by the African Union. On November 8, 2017, the African Bank Group approved its Second Climate Change Action Plan, 2016-2020 (CCAP2) as a clear message of its commitment to helping African countries mobilize resources to support the implementation of the Intended Nationally Determined Contributions of Regional Member Countries, in ways that will not hinder development. The approval of the action plan echoes discussions at COP23 in Bonn, Germany to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change and achieve the Paris Agreement’s goal of keeping global temperature rises to 1.5C. The CCAP2 is designed to incorporate the Bank’s High 5 priorities in the Paris Agreement, the 2030 development agenda, the Bank’s Green Growth Framework and the lessons learned in the implementation of the first climate change action plan (CCAP1), 2011-2015 As part of its wider mandate under the New Deal on Energy for Africa, the Board of Directors of the African Development Bank on December 15, 2017, approved an investment of US $ 20 million in the Evolution II Fund -a Pan-African clean and sustainable energy private equity fund. The Bank’s investment in Evolution II Fund reflects the High 5 development priorities of the Bank, the agenda to light up and Power Africa, and the Bank’s commitment to promote renewable energy and efficiency in Africa. The Evolution II Fund is expected to contribute to green and sustainable growth by creating 2,750 jobs and building on the track record of the Evolution One Fund (which created 1,495 jobs, of which 20% were for women, and generated 838 MW of wind energy and 87MW Solar PV energy). It is estimated that the Evolution One Fund achieved 1,190,469 of Carbon dioxide (CO2) emission savings annually In line with its commitment to renewable energy and ongoing institutional reforms, in the first quarter of 2017, the Bank appointed Ousseynou Nakoulima as the Director for Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency. He brings global experience in developing and managing programs and partnerships for driving renewable energy, from his work at the Green Climate Fund. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  38

 38 : COP25_UK322
The UK Government has added its voice to the widespread disappointment over the United Nations discussions on the climate crisis which ended in compromise and frustration. Lengthy talks in Madrid ended on Sunday with polluters resisting calls to increase efforts to minimise global heating and negotiators delaying debate about rules for international carbon markets for another year. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said he was disappointed'' by the final declaration, which cited anurgent need” to cut greenhouses gases in line with the 2015 Paris Agreement. But the outcome fell short of explicitly demanding countries to propose bolder emissions plans next year, in accordance with environmentalists and developing countries’ demands. The UK thanked Chile’s efforts in the Cop25 talks but expressed its frustration at the result. Tackling climate change is one of the most urgent issues we face and we are extremely grateful for the tireless efforts of the Chilean Cop presidency to reach an agreement, in challenging circumstances in Madrid,'' a UK Government spokesman said.It is disappointing talks did not move as far or as fast at the UK had hoped.
“There is still much more to do and we are determined to increase the momentum and drive even more ambitious climate action at next year’s talks in Glasgow.”
  39

 39 : COP24_UK52
GENEVA, Switzerland – The Portfolio Committee on Environmental Affairs is satisfied with South Africa’s preparations for the 24th Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC COP 24 ) that is scheduled to be held from 2 to 14 December 2018 in Katowice, Poland. Today the committee received an update on the current status of the negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and progress on the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The committee is also pleased that the country has set key priorities stemming from the Paris Agreement where the South African leadership played a critical role. Priorities such as enough mitigation ambition to avoid dangerous human-made climate change, to have enough international financial, technology and capacity building support to make the whole system work and to have effective transparency to build trust and share experiences. These priorities are critical in ensuring that as a country, South Africa plays its part in participating globally in fighting climate change. The Chairperson of the committee remarked that the Katowice climate change negotiations are very critical in the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The Katowice COP 24 is mandated to adopt the Paris Agreement Work Programme, which should set out the mechanism for the full implementation of the historic Paris Agreement and for this reason, it is the committee’s wish that the global climate negotiations succeed for the sake of humanity. The committee has noted the alarming report of the scientific advisory body to the UNFCCC, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) which confirms that it is now evident more than ever before, that climate change is currently the greatest threat to humankind and that dramatic changes by all countries are urgently required in order to limit global warming to 1.5’b0C. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Republic of South Africa: The Parliament. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  40

 40 : COP21_UK100
The EU-funded Clean Hydrogen in European Cities (CHIC) zero-emission bus project has shown savings of more than one million gallons of diesel fuel, indicating that fuel cell bus technology can be deployed for use in urban areas to tackle carbonisation issues. This has been revealed as the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference , COP21 Transport contributes one fourth of all the carbon emissions in Europe. Urban mobility accounts 40% of all the carbon dioxide emissions of road transport. Transport solutions such as fuel cell electric buses can play a crucial role in reducing carbon emissions. In place of regular internal combustion engines (ICEs), fuel cell buses make use of electric motors for propulsion. These fuel cell units transform hydrogen fuel into electricity in order to power the motor. The process only emits water vapour as a by-product, reported Traffictechnology.com. Initiated in 2010, the project will continue until next December, reported the publication. Within the project, 56 fuel cell electric buses are currently operational in daily service. While other bus trials are underway, a major European programme to deploy hundreds of these buses by 2020 is also in progress. The next set of roll-out is expected to lower bus costs and ensure that the technology is commercially viable for the elimination of carbon emissions from road transport. The programme is a joint initiative by Europe’s Fuel Cell and Hydrogen funding body FCH JU, bus operators, public authorities and industry players from the bus and fuel supply industry. CHIC project coordinator and Daimler Buses - EvoBus official Kerstin K M’fcller said: “The project has proven that fuel cell buses are far from being a research project and are nearly ready for commercialisation.” London deputy mayor for environment and energy Matthew Pencharz said: “In London, we’ve prioritised transforming our buses into one of the cleanest and greenest fleets in the world. The hydrogen RV1 buses are proving hugely popular with commuters and drivers alike and are crucial as part of our wider work to reduce emissions and improve air quality across the capital.” Image: Hydrogen fuel cell buses to reduce carbon emissions. Photo: courtesy of vegadsl via FreeDigitalPhotos.net.
  41
