 1 : COP21_UK148
December 2, 2015 NEW YORK, United States of America – The Secretary-General met today in Paris with H.E. Mr. John Dramani Mahama, President of Ghana, H.E. Mr. Alpha Cond’e9, President of Guinea, H.E. Mr. Ibrahim Boubacar Ke’efta, President of Mali, H.E. Mr.Mahamadou Issoufou, President of Niger and H.E. Mr. Muhammadu Buhari, President of Nigeria, in the margins of COP21 in Paris. They discussed the urgent need to reach an ambitious agreement on climate change that addresses the needs of the most vulnerable countries, especially in the context of significant challenges such as the disappearance of Lake Chad, deforestation and reduced rainfall in West Africa. The Secretary-General commended Africa’s proactive leadership on the issue of climate change, as demonstrated by the initiatives on renewable energy and on adaptation the continent launched in Paris. The Secretary-General and the Presidents agreed that climate finance, parity between adaptation and mitigation and access to renewable energy technology were key issues for African countries. The Secretary-General and the African leaders also agreed to exchange ideas and work together towards effective ways of preventing and countering terrorism. Paris Distributed by APO (African Press Organization) on behalf of United Nations - Office of the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General.
  2

 2 : COP21_UK306
The cruise industry is often criticised for being environmentally unfriendly and is facing tighter international regulations over fuel emissions - but it made surprising contribution to the COP21 climate change conference in Paris. Japanese NGO Peace Boat came up with an innovative concept for a 1,900-passenger ship with 10 retractable sail masts and a hybrid propulsion system that could be adapted to future fuels such as liquefied natural gas (LNG). The non-profit organisation, which works for world peace and the environment, claimed it would be the flagship for green technology in passenger shipping. Peace Boat is looking for a donor or investor. If funds can be found, the Eco Ship could enter service in 2020, by which time Carnival Corporation will have already built cruise ships powered by LNG. It has two 6,600-passenger giants on order from a shipyard in Finland, with the first due for completion in 2019. Norwegian coastal operator Hurtigruten also told COP21 it was hoping to develop expedition ships powered by battery technology and algae fuel. It has partnered with the Bellona Foundation, a Norwegian environmental NGO, with ambitions to provide zero-emission cruises. But are the plans just hot air? Leading UK cruise agent James Cole, managing director of Cruise118.com fears they may take longer to materialise. “By 2020 there will undoubtedly be more eco technology and focus within cruising, but a fully eco ship is unrealistic,” he said. Cole sees international passengers showing more interest in going green than UK customers. And is Captain Greybeard showing his cynical side in thinking that, for some companies, the use of solar panels and the introduction of developments such as fuel-saving bubble technology are as much about reducing costs as saving the planet? Hurtigruten has other bold plans too. In October 2017 the company plans to send MS Fram, one of its expedition vessels more used to the fjords and Antarctica, on voyages through the Panama Canal, and up the Amazon.
  3

 3 : COP24_UK285
Rich countries are not pulling their weight in the fight against , and must provide emergency finance to support a global green transition, environmental groups have warned. Presented at a , a new report has compared the amount of money going into tackling to the quantity of CO2 pollution each country emits. The EU, including the UK, and the US are home to most of the planet’s wealthiest people, receivingmore than half of theglobal income. At the same time, the poorest half of the world receives less than one tenth of the global total income and generates virtually no emissions. This disparity means the top countries are pumping out several tonnes more CO2 per capita than could be considered their “fair share” under existing climate targets. Read more WHO says cut fossil fuels to save lives as climate talks continue Without substantial support from wealthy countries, poorer nations will fall far short of ambitions to cut fossil fuels and the world will not be able to limit warming to the 1.5C increase scientists think is necessary. Thisindependent review was backed by social movements, NGOs, trade unions, faith and other civil society groups from around the world. They also warned that “global elites” must not pass the burden onto poorer people within rich countries. French presidentEmmanuel Macron has for pushing through a fuel tax in an effort to cut emissions that critics said would place too much financial stress on ordinary French citizens. A key focus of the event in the Polish city of Katowice is meant to be ramping up climate finance, specifically the annual $100 billion goal from donor nations to lower-income countries. The World Bank to invest $200bn (£3157bn) to aid in a green transition for developing nations, but campaigners think more investment needs to come from wealthy nations. Though many poorer countries, particularly island states like Fiji and the Marshall Islands, have been vocal in their commitment to tackling global warming, they lack the capacity to meet global climate targets without support. “Today’s report says all high emitters, predominantly the US and the EU, will have to do more to close the emissions gap. But they must also assist poorer countries to meet their goals through finance and technology access,” said Rachel Kennerley, international climate campaigner for . Read more What are the Paris climate agreement and the COP24 summit? “This could, for example, mean sharing patent-free renewable technology. Equity is not a moral luxury, it is a practical necessity in meeting the Paris goals, but climate discussions in Poland this week have so far sidestepped it.” Due to the huge quantities of carbon emissions coming from the wealthiest nations, the report found that they “cannot possibly meet their full fair shares through domestic action alone”. International aid to ensure “climate equity” will therefore be vital, particularly as poorer nations tend to be most at risk from climate change, including drought and rising sea levels. Support free-thinking journalism and subscribe to Independent Minds “Unless there is a fair deal that accounts for the legacy of climate change caused by industrialised developed countries, we will never have a sustainable global strategy,” said Brandon Wu, ActionAid USA’s director of policy and campaigns. “We have to get some trust back into the process, and that starts with rich countries making much stronger commitments to fix the climate crisis that they, and their wealthiest elites, are largely responsible for creating.” The UK government has for using foreign aid money to support fossil fuel developments overseas, including China’s fracking industry. Critics pointed out that it would be more beneficial to support the renewable energy industry and a green transition in other parts of the world.
  4

 4 : COP24_UK77
What was agreed at COP24 ? Countries HYPERLINK settled on most of the tricky elements of the “rulebook” for putting the ~ HYPERLINK 2015 Paris agreement Why did it take so long? There was a row over carbon credits, which are awarded to countries for their emissions-cutting efforts and their carbon sinks, such as forests, which absorb carbon. These credits count towards countries’ emissions-cutting targets. Brazil, which hopes to benefit from its large rainforest cover, insisted on a new form of wording that critics said would allow double counting of credits, undermining the integrity of the system. This issue has been put off until next year. What wasn’t agreed? Largely absent from these talks, which had a technical focus, was the key question of how countries will step up their targets on cutting emissions. On current targets, the world is set for 3C of warming from pre-industrial levels, which scientists say would be disastrous, resulting in droughts, floods, HYPERLINK sea level rises and the decline of agricultural productivity. When will that be agreed? The key deadline is 2020, when countries must show they have met targets set a decade ago for cutting their emissions, and when they must affirm new, much tougher targets. What does the science say? The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the global body of the world’s leading climate scientists, warned two months ago How long have we got? If we extrapolate from the IPCC’s findings, the world has little more than a decade to bring emissions under control and halve them, which would help to stabilise the climate. Are we getting there? After years in which the world’s carbon emissions appeared to be stabilising, they are on the rise again. Coal use continues and oil is still the engine of much of the world’s economy. Clean energy is coming on-stream at a faster rate than many predicted, and the costs of it have come down rapidly, but its adoption needs to be speeded up. Infrastructure, such as energy generation plants, transport networks and buildings, is a central issue: infrastructure built now to rely on high-carbon energy effectively locks in high emissions for decades to come. Some people are also saying we need to invest in projects to HYPERLINK remove carbon from the atmosphere Were countries united at the talks? The US, Russia, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait joined forces to prevent the conference fully embracing the IPCC’s findings, watering down a statement to a weak commendation of the timing of the scientists’ report. Australia joined with the US in a celebration of coal, and Brazil signalled its HYPERLINK climate scepticism under Jair Bolsonaro by withdrawing its offer to host next year’s talks. But the EU, a handful of other developed countries and scores of developing nations including the poorest and most vulnerable affirmed that they would strive to meet the IPCC’s advice on limiting warming to no more than 1.5C. What happens next? The UN will meet again next year in Chile to thrash out the final elements of the Paris rulebook and begin work on future emissions targets. But the crunch conference will come in 2020, when countries must meet the deadline for their current emissions commitments and produce new targets for 2030 and beyond that go further towards meeting scientific advice. That conference may be held in the UK or Italy, both of which have bid to be hosts. The UK’s intention in offering to host HYPERLINK is to signal it will retain its role on the world stage after Brexit. The event may also provide a welcome change from wranglings over Brexit and intractable trade deals. But whoever hosts will have a diplomatic mountain to climb, if the fractious nature of this year’s talks is anything to go by.
  5

 5 : COP25_UK39
Beating climate change requires “leadership and common sense”, presidential hopeful Michael Bloomberg has told delegates at an international climate summit where the US has been notable by its absence. The former New York mayor and multimillionaire Democrat appeared at COP25 in Madrid yesterday as the second week of fraught negotiations on the final details of the Paris Agreement began. “Beating climate change won’t require a miracle, it won’t require limitless resources,” Mr Bloomberg told the crowd at the packed event. “It will require leadership and common sense.” Mr Bloomberg, who announced his candidacy for president in November, said he was at the COP25 talks “because Donald Trump is not”. “I’m here because his administration refused to lead on climate change, so others must do the work.” President Trump began the year-long process of withdrawing the US from the Paris Agreement in November - an act which will not take effect until after the 2020 presidential election - and was not present at the summit. Instead, the US was represented at COP25 by a congressional delegation of Democrats led by house speaker Nancy Pelosi who said congress had an “iron-clad” commitment to action on the climate crisis. In a tweet, Mr Bloomberg said that, if elected president, one of the first things he would do is re-enter the Paris Agreement and “increase America’s commitment to reducing emissions”. Most other Democratic presidential candidates, including Bernie Sanders, Joe Biden and Elizabeth Warren, have made similar promises. Mr Bloomberg is vice-president of the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate Change and Energy, a group of city representatives around the world aiming to go beyond national commitments to curb their carbon emissions. To highlight this, the US Climate Action Centre has been running events at COP25 showcasing the carbon reduction work of academic, cultural, corporate and agricultural institutions. One event focused on some of the hundreds of legal actions taken by state attorney generals against federal rollbacks to environmental regulation in the three years since Mr Trump became president. A recent report by the New York University School of Law’s State Energy and Environmental Impact Centre said the Trump administration had “engaged in a concerted, across-the-board attempt to weaken many of our nation’s bedrock health, safety and environmental laws” and states had been a powerful force in challenging it. The COP25 Mr Gore said he wanted to send a message that the vast majority of Americans want the rest of the world to hear: “We are still here.” The climate talks are well into their second week now, with discussions officially scheduled to end on Friday. But with agreement on some of the more controversial details looking increasingly unlikely, NGOs, activist groups and developing nation representatives are stepping up the pressure on national ministers to make ambitious choices that respect human rights and give minority voices a chance to be heard.
  6

 6 : COP24_UK197
Highlights from Italian newspapers and news websites on 4 December 2018 Il Messaggero in Italian - Rome-based centrist daily 1. PM Conte meets with PA President Abbas, reiterates support for ‘two-states solution’ in Mideast.
(p 13; 100 words) Il Sole-24 Ore in Italian - Milan-based leading financial and economic daily 1. Facebook post suggests Italian ‘yellow vests’ set to emulate French counterparts. (p 9; 300 words) 2. Gianni Toniolo comments on G-20 summit, argues EU best advised to speak with ‘one voice’ in ‘this bilateral world.’ (p 19; 750 words) Corriere della Sera in Italian - Milan-based leading centrist daily; largest circulation of Italian dailies 1. Social media ‘used by Islamist fundamentalists’ run photograph of Venice dominated by ISIS symbols, flag. (‘Venice’ supplement; p 5; 1,100 words) Avvenire in Italian - Milan-based official daily organ of the Italian Bishops’ Conference 1. UN Secretary General Guterres, Polish President Duda comment with Avvenire on COP24 talks, climate change. (p 4; 450 words) 2. PM Conte interviewed on budget, EU, coalition ties, other. (p 5; 1,450 words) Il Foglio in Italian - Milan-based independent right-of-center daily 1. Editorial notes official government communique announcing Prime Minister Conte’s meeting with Palestinian Authority President Abbas calls the latter ‘President of Palestine’ rather than ‘President of Palestinian Authority.’ (p 3; 350 words) Il Giornale in Italian - Milan-based right-of-center daily owned by the Berlusconi family 1. Fiamma Nirenstein calls Pope Francis’ meeting with PA President Abbas £ blow for Israel.’ (‘Fire and Flame’ column; p 12; 450 words) Il Giornale.it in Italian - Milan-based website of right-of-center daily owned by the Berlusconi family 1. Lorenzo Vita argues Italy ‘changing tack’ in Libya, backing HoR armed forces C-in-C Haftar ‘with US backing.’ (750 words) La Stampa in Italian - Turin-based leading centrist daily; owned by Fiat’s Agnelli family 1. Former Ambassador Stefano Stefanini comments on G-20 summit, argues
‘Trump reckons the world needs a G-3’ comprising US, PRC, Russia. (pp 1, 27; 400 words) La Gazzetta del Mezzogiorno in Italian - Bari-based independent centrist daily 1. Pope Francis, PA President Abbas hold talks, focus on ‘Jerusalem status.’ (p 9; 300 words) Source: BBC Monitoring 4 Dec 18
  7

 7 : COP26_UK57
COP President Alok Sharma met representatives from the federal and state Mexican government, as well as
representatives of civil society, indigenous peoples and youth He visited the state of Quintana Roo to hear about
sustainable forestry management from communities and see coastal areas blighted by the brown algae sargassum
The visit was made to follow up on the agreements made during COP26 , held in Glasgow in November 2021 COP
President Alok Sharma visited Mexico from April 24-27 to drive momentum on delivering commitments made in the
Glasgow Climate Pact signed last November by 196 countries. On his first visit to the country, the COP26 President
participated in several bilateral meetings in Mexico City focused on climate action issues, including a push for
greater ambition and a net zero commitment. At the start of the visit, the COP President met representatives of
civil society organisations, youth groups and indigenous peoples who highlighted their climate change concerns
across sectors including forests, energy, and agriculture. The COP President also held bilateral Government
meetings with Roc’edo Nahle, Minister of Energy and Martha Delgado, Undersecretary for Foreign Affairs. He also
met the Mexico City Mobility Secretary, Andres Lajous, during a visit to the Cablebus, the city’ s new low carbon
transport system and the Quintana Roo Secretary of Ecology and Environment, Efrain Villanueva. Throughout
these meetings, Alok Sharma underlined the importance of greater ambition in Mexico’ s Nationally Determined
Contributions (NDCs) and the potential to achieve a net zero goal as well as the importance of decarbonising
Mexico’ s energy mix. Mexico’ s perspectives post COP26 and in preparation for COP27 were also heard. Mr
Sharma participated in a business round table with members of the private sector in Mexico to discuss the
important role business has to play in delivering the Glasgow Climate Pact and driving ambitious climate action in
the country. While in Mexico, Mr Sharma also visited Muyil in the Yucatan peninsula to meet with indigenous
representatives and hear views on nature-based solutions and community integration in projects in the region. On
his final day he witnessed coastal areas affected by the brown algae sargassum, considered by experts to be a
consequence of rising ocean temperatures, fertiliser use and deforestation. COP26 President, Alok Sharma, said: I
came to Mexico to speak with my government counterparts, civil society groups and business who are all so
important in turning climate change commitments into action. State ministers, parliamentarians and business
leaders all demonstrated their commitment to action in undertaking work to tackle climate change. Many countries
are already seeing the impact of climate change, including Mexico. During my visit to Quintana Roo it was great to
see how sustainable forest management and land restoration are being used to protect those most vulnerable to
climate change. Pledges made at COP26 in Glasgow must come to life this year. Mexico has a crucial role in
helping to deliver this, both through net zero commitments and shorter-term emission reduction targets. I look
forward to the UK and Mexico working closely together on this. ENDS Share this page HYPERLINK u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.gov.uk%2Fgovernment%2Fnews%2Fcop-president-alok-sharma-visits-mexico-to- promote-global-climate-action-and-implementation-of-the-glasgow-climate-pact Share on Facebook HYPERLINK url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.gov.uk%2Fgovernment%2Fnews%2Fcop-president-alok-sharma-visits-mexico-to- promote-global-climate-action-and-implementation-of-the-glasgow-climate- pact&text=COP%20President%20Alok%20Sharma%20visits%20Mexico%20to%20promote%20global%20climate%20action%20and Share on Twitter Published 29 April 2022 Language: ~ENGLISH
  8

 8 : COP22_UK2
Marrakech (Morocco) - Schneider Electric, the global specialist in energy management and automation, supports the Organizing Committee of the COP22 which takes place in Marrakech (Morocco) from November 7 to 18, 2016, and confirms its commitment to electric mobility development, a key enabler of the fight against climate change. Schneider Electric is in charge of the transport, the commissioning and the maintenance of the EV charging stations offered by the French government to the Moroccan government for the COP22 site. As such, Schneider Electric is an official partner of the COP22 . COP 22 - Official Partner Schneider Electric’s mission is to offer solutions that are safe, reliable, efficient and sustainable. The Group equipped the COP22 site with EVLink City and EVLink Wallbox, designed to withstand heavy use in cities. EVlink charging stations are easy to use, safe for users and compatible with any electric or hybrid vehicles. Schneider Electric’s EVLink Charging Stations in front of the COP22 site Schneider Electric’s EVLink Charging Stations in front of the COP22 site Schneider Innovation at Every Level harnesses the power and promise of the Internet of Things to reshape cities, transform industries and enrich lives through connected products, edge control, and apps, analytics and services. Caspar Hezberg, President Schneider Electric Middle East & Africa, Gilles Vermot Desorches, SVP Sustainability at Schneider Electric, and Christian Girardeau, Vice President Electric Vehicle Business at Schneider Electric, attend COP22 to showcase Schneider Electric’s innovative solutions that address the energy paradox: balancing our planet’s carbon footprint with the irrefutable human right to quality energy. Schneider Electric’s agenda at COP22 is available here. About Schneider Electric Schneider Electric is the global specialist in energy management and automation. With revenues of ~EUR27 billion in FY2015, our 160,000+ employees serve customers in over 100 countries, helping them to manage their energy and process in ways that are safe, reliable, efficient and sustainable. From the simplest of switches to complex operational systems, our technology, software and services improve the way our customers manage and automate their operations. Our connected technologies reshape industries, transform cities and enrich lives. At Schneider Electric, we call this Life Is On. HYPERLINK www.schneider-electric.com [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  9

 9 : COP23_UK86
Deutsche Bahn is taking Germany’s government delegation and other guests by special train to the 23rd UN Climate Change Conference ( COP23 ) in Bonn. ‘Germany’s government delegation has a tradition of taking environmentally friendly transport to conferences in Europe,’ said Chairman of the Management Board and CEO of DB Dr. Richard Lutz today as the ICE ‘Train to Bonn’ departed from Berlin Central. ‘Today we are sending an important message by having our 250 guests travel CO2-free. We have continued to raise our own climate protection targets and step up our efforts since Copenhagen in 2009, in Paris two years ago and now in Bonn in 2017,’ he added. The specially branded train, which was sent off on its journey with the Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Building and Nuclear Safety (BMUB) on board, will be stopping at the new UN Campus station in Bonn. Various discussions about climate protection were scheduled to begin on the train, with guests including Environment Minister Dr. Hendricks and state secretaries Flasbarth and Schwarzeluhr-Sutter taking part.
‘Our objective in Bonn is to move global climate protection forward and work on implementing the Paris Climate Accord,’ said Environment Minister Dr. Barbara Hendricks. ‘But we also want to set green standards when it comes to conference organization. Traveling to the conference on the climate-neutral special train is the perfect way to kick off the event,’ she continued. DB recently earned the top climate score of A for its environmental performance in the new 2017 ranking published by the international rating organization CDP. DB is one of only two companies in the rail sector in the world to make it onto CDP’s A List. CDP evaluates companies’ climate protection activities and the transparency of their reporting and is considered the world’s best known list of climate protection ratings. During the journey to Bonn, DB CEO Dr. Lutz and Board Member for Passenger Transport Berthold Huber were scheduled to speak about the new ambitious climate targets DB set ahead of COP23 . DB aims to cut specific greenhouse gas emissions by more than 50% by 2030, which amounts to an absolute reduction of more than two million metric tons of CO2 for train transport in Germany. The Group intends to be entirely CO2-free by 2050. DB Schenker has also set its own specific goals. It wants to be the first major international logistics company to achieve CO2-free growth in the next ten years. It intends to cut specific greenhouse gas emissions by 40% compared to 2006 levels. The UN COP23 is being held from November 6 to 17. Over 20,000 participants are expected. The regional transport company Nahverkehr Rheinland (NVR) and DB Station&Service completed the new UN Campus station ahead of schedule to accommodate as many train travelers as possible. The ICE Train to Bonn is also part of DB’s new ‘This is green’ environmental communication campaign, which was just launched. As part of the campaign, 112 projects - including DB’s mobile phone ticket, CO2-free freight transport and DB’s own hydroelectric power plants for generating green power - are being published and will be presented at stations and on trains. The campaign is a first, giving DB a compact and diverse way to showcase its green projects. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  10

 10 : COP21_UK231
Click here for full-size image epa05048625 Morocco’s King Mohammed VI, (R), is greeted by United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, after arriving for the COP21 , United Nations Climate Change Conference , in Le Bourget, outside Paris, France, 30 November 2015. The 21st Conference of the Parties ( COP21 ) is held in Paris from 30 November to 11 December aimed at reaching an international agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions and curtail climate change. EPA/CHRISTOPHE ENA / POOL MAXPP OUT IMAGE ID: EPALIVE926462 HYPERLINK Subject to copyright. Click here for information regarding redistribution of this image.
  11

 11 : COP26_UK276
HYPERLINK Sadiq Khan today said governments that del HYPERLINK ayed action on global warming had replaced climate change deniers a s the biggest obstacle to progress. The Mayor returned to HYPERLINK Glasgow to address the main stage at HYPERLINK COP26 on its cities and regions day as the two-week summit entered its final 48 hours. It came as the United Nations and activists gave a cautious welcome to an unexpected declaration HYPERLINK from the US and China, t Mr Khan, chairman of the C40 group of world cities committed to climate action, rounded on governments who “talked a good game” but failed to back up their pledges with hard cash. He was expected to say: “For years, climate change deniers have attempted to thwart climate action. But today the biggest obstacle to reducing our carbon emissions isn’t the climate change deniers, it’s the delayers. Unfortunately, we have seen yet more examples of this at COP26 . So my message to the UK government and other nation states and businesses around the world is that these delaying tactics must stop. The time for empty rhetoric and hollow gestures is over. We need urgent action now - not in 20 or 30 years’ time.” Sources denied the Mayor was abandoning his strategy of “building bridges” with the government. He was instead said to be taking the approach of a “critical friend” who accepted Boris Johnson understood the importance of tackling climate change but wanted to ensure he also funded the switch to a green economy. Mr Khan wants Government funding to convert London’s 9,000-strong bus fleet to electric vehicles. Only about 550 buses are electric at present. He will lead a delegation of C40 mayors to meet UN Secretary General Ant’f3nio Guterres to discuss cities’ role in slashing emissions . The UK COP26 presidency has published a first draft of a possible deal for countries to speed up plans in the next year for cutting emissions up to 2030. Read More HYPERLINK Night Tube: Sadiq urged to set date for reopening of all five lines HYPERLINK ‘Blah, blah, blah’: Sadiq Khan slammed for backing London F1 race during HYPERLINK COP26 HYPERLINK ‘Green’ London public transport system would create 300,000 jobs Classification Language:
~ENGLISH
  12

 12 : COP21_UK188
Small island countries facing flooding from rising sea levels are closing in on a deal with wealthy countries that would see loss and damage support measures included in the HYPERLINK global climate accord to be finalised in Paris this week . Developed countries have been resisting such a move for more than a year, fearing it could make them liable for billions of dollars in compensation. But Miguel Arias Ca’f1ete, EU climate commissioner, told the Financial Times there was now a growing understanding that loss and damage provisions would be included in the Paris agreement, as long as they did not expose wealthy countries to new claims for compensation. A draft text of the agreement was finalised on Saturday. Mr Arias Ca’f1ete said a meeting that Barack Obama, US president, had with five island leaders last week at the Paris talks, known as COP21 , had helped smooth the way for a compromise on what has become one of the more divisive issues in UN climate talks in recent years. I am very glad that the US is showing flexibility because from the very beginning of this process we have supported this concept of course with adequate language [on compensation], he said. But he added: There is one thing that we do not accept and will not accept in this agreement and that is the notion that there should be liability and compensation for loss and damage. That is a line that we can’ t cross. This is not a US-centric position but it is a position that is important for us. It is still unclear what type of loss and damage measures might make it into the final accord that delegates from nearly 200 nations are due to seal this Friday. The draft text of the agreement called for a climate change displacement co-ordination facility to be set up to relocate people affected by the fierce storms and other extreme weather scientists say is more likely as global temperatures rise. The text also says plans to address irreversible and permanent damage resulting from human-induced climate change should be completed within four years. Island country delegates said they were very pleased wealthy countries were no long rejecting outright the notion that their failure to combat global warming meant extra support was needed for small, poor countries facing a threat to their existence. But James Fletcher of St Lucia, the small Caribbean island state, said the question of how to frame loss and damage support in the Paris agreement was still a stumbling block. We believe we already have avenues for liability and compensation under international law and international agreements, he said. The discussion going on right now is a discussion among lawyers. How do we end up with a text that allays the fears of the US, the EU and other countries that we are creating a mechanism for liability and compensation. And how do you address our concern that we do not give up any rights that we presently already have under international agreements. UN climate talks have been held for more than 20 years without managing to produce the deep cuts in global emissions from burning fossil fuels that scientists say are required to avert dangerous levels of global warming. HYPERLINK Listen to the FT News podcast
  13

 13 : COP25_UK253
Scotland and the UK should not yet be boasting about their “world-leading” action to save the planet after Glasgow was selected as the venue for next year’s prestigious United Nations climate change conference , environmentalists are warning. On winning the bid to stage the summit, international development secretary Alok Sharma said the decision was “testimony to the UK’s leading role in the global fight against climate change”. But campaigners have pointed out that landing the Conference of Parties (COP) is not based on a country’s environmental credentials and more to do with the depth of its pockets. The 2013 and 2018 summits were held in Poland, a country powered by coal, and in 2012 in oil-rich Qatar. Conversely, although Fiji presided over the 2017, meeting the event itself was held in Bonn, Germany, as the South Pacific island could not handle the logistics and expense of staging such a large-scale gathering. Campaigners have welcomed the international event, which is seen as the most important since the Paris conference in 2015, but warn that much tougher action is needed if catastrophic climate change is to be avoided. “One only has to look at the recent hosting of COP by the right-wing, coal-loving Polish government to know that hosting these talks is not because you are the best in class.”The talks are an enormously complex, expensive undertaking for which there are few volunteers.” International experts have agreed that a 2C rise in global temperature over pre-industrial levels would spark catastrophic and irreversible climate change. However, analysis suggests the world is currently on course to hit at least 3C by the end of the century. Westminster has outlined intentions for the UK to reach net-zero carbon emissions by 2050, while Scotland intends to get there five years earlier. So all eyes will be on the UK as international leaders and the world’s top climate scientists gather in Glasgow next December to discuss progress on pledges to restrict global warming to 1.5C, as set out in the Paris Agreement. Friends of the Earth Scotland is warning that both the UK and Scotland must drastically step up action to reduce greenhouse gases to have any hope of helping curb warming. The group has joined a number of other organisations in their call for tougher targets to be included in Scotland’s forthcoming new Climate Bill, which is due to face its final vote at Holyrood on 25 September. Ministers have set out aims to cut emissions by 70 per cent by 2030, 90 per cent by 2040 and to reach net-zero by 2045. But the coalition Stop Climate Chaos Scotland, which includes Greenpeace, Oxfam, WWF, RSPB and Christian Aid as well as Friends of the Earth, is calling for an even more ambitious goal - 80 per cent by 2030. Dixon says actions over the next decade will be “crucial” in the fight against climate change and the Scottish Government still has an opportunity to set an example to the rest of the world ahead of COP26 by raising the bar higher still. “The UN’s landmark report last year was crystal clear that emissions must fall significantly between now and 2030 if we are to have any hope of staying within 1.5C of warming,” he said. “By setting a target to cut emissions by 86 per cent by 2030, Nicola Sturgeon’s government would be able to hold their heads up high at the talks next year.” Scottish climate change secretary Roseanna Cunningham said: “It is right that this conference should come to Scotland, given our leadership in climate action.”Scotland was one of the first countries in the world to acknowledge the global climate emergency and the Scottish Government has introduced the toughest targets in the UK to ensure our action matches the scale of our climate ambitions.”
  14

 14 : COP21_UK127
This week I will be travelling with colleagues to Paris to participate in the great climate summit - the 21st Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change or HYPERLINK COP21 . The purpose of these two weeks of talks is to come to an effective global agreement to reduce carbon emissions and avoid dangerous levels of climate change. There is, of course, a great deal of value in making a comprehensive agreement covering all the world’s nations. But I am just as interested in what happens after these talks - how do we actually enable the changes that need to be made in order to achieve these carbon savings? This is where we will need to turn to proven examples of sustainable development that are leading the way in zero carbon or low carbon standards. There are projects all around the world showing us what a clean energy future looks like.~ From a personal perspective, I have been involved in the designing, constructing, operating and even living in green communities - for example, HYPERLINK BedZED and ~ HYPERLINK One Brighton . It has not been without its challenges, but it is clear we can reduce carbon emissions dramatically when good design, delivery and sustainable behaviour come together.~~ ~ We have also been supporting our partners around the world on their journey towards HYPERLINK One Planet Living - making it easy for people to lead happy, healthy lives within the natural limits of the planet.~ In this context I recently visited the construction site of ~ HYPERLINK Villages Nature£e Paris Geothermal energy will meet the development’s entire heating requirements, saving 9,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions per year. Significant achievements have also been made during construction, with over 80% of waste sent for material recycling (and another 17% for energy recovery) and extensive use of low-carbon concrete. With its 2,500 m’b2 open air swimming lagoon heated to more than 30 degrees year round by geothermal energy, its proximity to Paris and transport links,~Villages Nature Paris is a~viable eco-destination. We have so far to go in terms of reducing our carbon emissions and it’s easy to be daunted by what we need to do. But, amid all the tensions and debates about agreements and high-level frameworks, we shouldn’t forget that we already have so many of the technologies, practices and solutions essential to the changes that are required. No matter what decisions are made at COP21 , we must all share our learning so we can create a culture of confidence about low-carbon development.~ We can do it - but only if we make the collective commitment.~ Will you be part of the solution?
  15

 15 : COP22_UK237
Experts from the nature and wildlife community continually warn us about the negative impact we have on our environment and the species that live within it. These warnings recently culminated in two landmark reports produced with the input of dozens of wildlife organisations. In September, the State of Nature: Wales report revealed the alarming figure that one in 14 species in Wales are headed towards extinction. A month later, new data released by WWF and the Zoological Society of London revealed that global wildlife populations are on course to decline by 67% in 2020 since 1970. Poor management of our natural surroundings and pollution have been blamed. The Welsh Government believe we have one of the “strongest foundation[s] in the UK” to deal with these issues, however that hasn’t given reassurance to some key figures in the environment community, including naturalist Iolo Williams, who has blasted the government’s response as “incredibly poor”. So what are we to do? One of the experts behind the State of Nature: Wales report, Stephen Bladwell, biodiversity manager at RSPB Cymru, points to how we are becoming more and more disconnected with nature (p10 and 11) and this is negatively shaping how we view the natural world. In other words, if we spend next to no time surrounded by our natural environment, how will we know what we are losing and why would we care when it is gone? It would seem that the reality is, most of us don’t even know what we’re losing. So if these reports are to have any major impact, it should be to encourage each of us to immerse ourselves in the wonders of the beautiful natural landscapes of Wales - especially now the Welsh Government is investing to improve access to our great outdoors (page 4). You can read more about wildlife and nature on pages 12 and 13. Over the next fortnight, representatives from nations across the world will meet in Marrakesh in Morocco for the Cop22 climate change conference to discuss how to implement the commitments made last year that came into force last Friday, November 4. It includes the commitment to curb greenhouse gas emissions and limit global temperature increases to two degrees Celsius. It comes as Wales’ first solarpowered village nears completion (page 5) and leading figures, firms and organisations are awarded for their efforts in the renewable energy field at an awards ceremony in Cardiff Bay (page 6). We are entering a critical period in preventing further human-caused global increases in temperature, and a huge part of Wales’ input will come from these green-energy pioneers. To close, this is the last issue before Christmas and, as seems to be tradition, we have a list of great green gifts for those of you who want to lessen their impact on the environment while still bringing a smile to their loved ones’ faces (pages 8 and 9). Enjoy the upcoming festive period, we’ll see you in the new year. Jack Feeney mailto:jack.feeney@mediawales.co.uk jack.feeney@mediawales.co.uk
  16

 16 : COP23_UK99
Jean-Philippe Desmartin, Head of Responsible Investment at Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management, on what to expect from Emmanuel Macron at this week’s climate change summit in Paris The COP23 ~ At the COP23 Will € Old Europe€ succeed in assuming co-leadership with China? Emmanuel Macron has already called for Donald Trump’s decision to cease IPCC funding to be symbolically compensated. For the moment, the current political standstill in Germany precludes any pro-active stance from Berlin and thus from Europe. ~ In the meantime, one of the tough questions that participants at the December 12 summit will have to grapple with is how to raise the 100bn a year that developed countries promised back in 2015 to pay to the least developed countries from 2020 to help them fund energy transition. The US was at the time supposed to be one of the biggest contributors. How will this shortfall be met, at least until the end of Donald Trump’s term of office? The immediate focus will be on reassuring beneficiary countries as they are expecting a sustainable solution to be found. ~ At the same time, the French President could, in a gesture to business interests, put the question of a carbon price floor back on the agenda. A number of countries, investors and economists are in favour of a carbon price signal at EUR30 or USD30 at least.~ ~ Looking beyond government action, he will probably encourage all stakeholders to acknowledge their responsibilities. Quite a few US states, cities and companies have already said they are willing to continue the fight against global warming even if the White House has backed out. Emmanuel Macron is also expected to encourage investors, most of whom are already fully aware of climate issues, to go further.~Also, NGOs will be doing their job if they continue to apply pressure so that things really do change from 2020 onwards. offFlag:~
  17

 17 : COP24_UK327
February 7, 2019 The “Uranium Market Outlook - Q4, 2018” report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com’s offering. After having said in my Q3 2018 Uranium Market Outlook that despite the U3O8 spot price having recovered from a low of $ 18/lb on November 28, 2016 to $ 26/lb at the end of August 2018, optimism on structural continuation of the recovery should not be overstated, the effect of Cameco’s announcement on August 21, 2018 that it is seeking 500,000 pounds from uranium producers between the end of this year through March 21, 2019, has not succeeded to break the important resistance level of $ 30/lb to date. This resistance level was addressed to by me since 2012 when there occurred a difference of more than $ 10/lb between the falling spot price and consolidation of the long-term price yet, which has blocked an earlier recovery of the spot price. With the 500,000 pounds to be delivered by Cameco before March 21, 2019, the Company’s total need to meet its contractual obligations is said to be 15 million pounds of uranium through the end of 2019. Referring to my analysis of statistics on the top 10 countries of the world’s uranium producers, as well as nuclear power reactors and uranium requirement, it is to be noticed that while the United States in 2017 had a deficit of 18,056 tonnes in supply, this deficit could be covered easily by Kazakhstan’s supply of 23,391 tonnes. In addition, there is access to delivery from long-term agreements with other countries, of which Russia in particular. This actually means that based on current global production and supply, almost all trading doesn’t have to be generated by the open market, and as a result could halt a further recovery of the uranium spot price to required economically viable prices above $ 50/lb. With existing long-term obligations to dry up in the next few years and to be replaced, it has to be noticed that utilities will be reluctant to offer a high premium for committed long-term deliveries of U3O8, like happened in the period up to year-end 2015, at which time the U3O8 price was $ 50/lb. From this perspective, it is also to be considered that the need of uranium to feed the anticipated strong growth of new nuclear reactors in China, Russia and India, can be fully accommodated through secured bilateral agreements rather than through the non-transparent open market. By Kazakhstan playing a dominant role producing 40% of total world uranium production, representing a surplus in supply of 24,575 tonnes and together with a Canadian surplus of 12,447 tonnes and Australia 6,315 tonnes in supply to provide global uranium demand, which now comes for account of the United States, showing a deficit of 24,575 tonnes. Based on a new future energy strategy in the U.S., with the goal to be less dependent on foreign supply of uranium from percentage of around 7% only, this will result in decreasing imports and support higher local U.S. production. Key Topics Covered: - General market comments - Content summary - Worlds largest carbon emitters - World nuclear power reactors Uranium requirements - World top 10 uranium producing countries - Paris Climate Agreement confirms essential contribution of nuclear energy to limit global warming - United Nations report reiterates increased need for nuclear power - COP24 - China and Russia to dominate international sales of new nuclear plants - Rio Tinto sells entire 68.62% interest in Namibian Rossing mine to CNNC of China - European Union fails as leader reactors in profiling itself as a leader on promoting action on climate change - Phasing out Germany’s nuclear reactors in conflict with EU energy policy - Kazatomprom Company Profile - Resurrecting JC Inkai between Kazatomprom and Cameco - Market Valuation of the World’s listed uranium industry - Geographical overview of the world’s highest valued exploration and development countries - United States dominates global energy markets - Call for U.S government to revitalize its uranium industry - U.S. uranium mine production 2017 55% less than in 2016 - U.S. uranium in-situ leach plants - US congress approves US$ 1.2 Billion budget for nuclear energy - Energy Fuels Company Profiles - Ur-Energy Company Profiles - Peninsula Energy Company Profiles - UEC prevented from technical default in 2019 and Company Profiles Companies Mentioned - Cameco - Energy Fuels - Kazatomprom - Peninsula Energy - Rio Tinto - Ur-Energy - Uranium Energy For more information about this report visit HYPERLINK w=3 w=3 CONTACT: ResearchAndMarkets.com, Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager HYPERLINK mailto:press@researchandmarkets.com press@researchandmarkets.com Related Topics: Chemicals ( ~ HYPERLINK cat_id=63campaign_id=mn8zdp cat_id=63campaign_id=mn8zdp )
  18

 18 : COP21_UK210
The United Nations Secretary-General announced today at the UN climate change conference ( COP21 ) that a broad group of organizations will partner in 2016 to maintain momentum for multi-stakeholder climate implementation. “I am heartened by the significant and growing coalitions that are emerging to tackle the challenges of climate change and realize new opportunities,” Mr. Ban underlined at the global event taking place in Paris, on a day dubbed “Action Day.” “I am pleased to be joined by so many key partners to scale climate action efforts and make them sustainable,” he added. The Secretary-General, joined by groups such as the World Bank, the Global Environment Facility and the Compact of Mayors, and individuals including Michael Bloomberg - the UN Secretary-General’s Special Envoy for Cities and Climate Change - will co-sponsor a “Climate Action 2016” summit of leaders from government, business, cities and localities, civil society and academia next 5 and 6 May in Washington, D.C. According to a press release issued by the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC) - the organizer of the conference - this high-level gathering will complement ongoing implementation efforts and catalyze actionable, concrete deliverables in specific high-value areas, including: cities; land use; resilience; energy; transport; tools for decision makers; and finance. [The summit will] show that the things that were talked here in Paris are actually happening on the ground,” Bob Orr, a Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on climate change, told the UN News Centre in an interview. “The number and the depth of the coalitions that are that are organized to deliver action on climate whether through forestry, through industry, through cities, all the different channels need to move forward as far and as fast as they can. So the Secretary-General is not only ensuring we have this robust universal agreement, but that we have the coalition in the field to deliver the goods.” Meanwhile, the world’s attention is turned towards the Paris-Le Bourget site north-east of the French capital, where government representatives have been meeting since Monday to reach a new universal climate agreement to limit global temperature rise to below two degrees Celsius. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  19

 19 : COP24_UK286
Scientists have laid down the gauntlet for political leaders as the UN climate summit in Katowice, Poland, wrestles with the challenge of cutting emissions without sparking social tensions like those seen recently in France. The UN climate talks - known as COP24 and the most important since the Paris agreement was signed in 2015 - aim to set a new rulebook for governments to reduce greenhouse gases and to raise ambitions, after warnings of dire consequences if global warming rises more than 1.5C above pre-industrial levels. The climate crisis is already here and the risks are growing, said Hoesung Lee, chair of the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, who led a HYPERLINK study by thousands of HYPERLINK scientists on ways to avoid 1.5C of warming via accelerated transition from fossil fuels. “The IPCC made a tremendous collective effort to bring you the best scientific knowledge on the subject. We tell you limiting warming to 1.5C is possible but the window is narrowing,” Lee told a plenary on Tuesday. “The scientific community has delivered, now it is up to governments to take action.” There has been HYPERLINK fierce debate about what to do with the study. All but four of the world’s governments want to formally welcome the 1.5C report to spur a more ambitious shift towards renewable energy. However, four oil producing nations - the US, Russia, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait - said the study should merely be “noted”. This issue has overshadowed the past few days of the talks in Poland. Saudi Arabia has claimed there are “gaps and uncertainties” in the study. The US held a long-planned event HYPERLINK promoting ~ HYPERLINK coal, gas, oil and nuclear power In a thinly veiled criticism of such tactics, Laurent Fabius, a former prime minister of France and president of the 2015 Paris climate talks, told the plenary that political leaders would play a negative role if they were “not only somnambulists but spoilers”. He noted that global emissions rose by 2% this year, when they need to decline if warming is to be kept to a less dangerous level. “Let us be clear, the real world is not on track. We need to do more and to do it faster,” Fabius said. “The IPCC 1.5C report shows the tremendous importance of every half degree and the disastrous consequences of missing that boundary.” But many delegates said more attention should be focused on the social challenges of rapid change, as workers in old industries, such as coal, lose their jobs and the price of fossil fuels is pushed higher to stimulate the transition to alternative energies. Without greater consideration of how the costs and benefits could be equally shared there could be a violent backlash, as France has experienced with the HYPERLINK gilets jaunes ~ HYPERLINK protests that were initially about a planned rise in an eco-tax on petrol. Jonathan Pershing, a former US climate envoy, said technology and the markets would drive change, and it was already cheaper to build a new renewable power plant than a new coal or gas plant. “But you have to think about how to manage it. What happens to people who no longer have jobs from the old economy in the new economy? How do you think about new opportunities and the training you give young people? If you close down old facilities, how do you do it in a manner that keeps the communities alive and helps maintain the traditions and cultural structures?” Pershing said. “We don’t do it very often so we don’t have much experience. No report tells us how to manage the political difficulties. We need to manage the transitions. They’re hard.” This was echoed by Andrew Steer, president of the World Resources Institute, who said it was important for governments to separate raising tax revenue from addressing climate change. “The yellow vest implications are huge and show the danger if we take wrong moves,” he said. “We haven’t paid enough attention on the short-term impacts [of putting a price on carbon]. The environment movement needs to look at itself in the mirror.”
  20

 20 : COP24_UK100
The forthcoming UN climate change conference in Katowice, Poland, is unlikely to attract the same attention as its predecessors in Paris in 2015, or Kyoto in 1997. But amongthe dull, humdrum monotony of the bureaucratic implementation of the Paris Agreement, there is one feature of this year’s conference - or ” COP24 ” - that has already attracted some interest. This year, one of the seats will be occupied, not by any politician or civil servant, but by “The People”. But of course, fitting over seven billion people onto a single chair is not without its difficulties. Luckily for us, the UN has identified the perfect man to speak on our behalf. At the opening session of COP24 , the soft, soporific tones of Sir David Attenborough will treat the conference’s attendees to a warm fireside (or some electrical, environmentally sustainable alternative) rendition of the concerns of “real people”. Now, it may be a failing on my part, but I have to confess an almost intuitive distrust of anyone (whether an individual or a group) who claims to speak for the people. To make that claim is to assume a homogeneity and consensus of thought which is as dangerous as it is boring. That distrust grows greater still when that assumption is mixed with the as-yet-undimmed influence of celebrity. Make no mistake about it, while he might not be a likely candidate in the Celebrity Big Brother house, or selling his holiday beach pictures to OK! magazine, Sir David is very much part of that culture which favours mass appeal over expertise, style over substance, and feelings over knowledge. The proponents of the People’s Seat might point to the fact that Sir David is expected to include in his address a number of accounts provided by people from around the world, about how climate change will affect, or is already in the process of affecting, them. But why not simply allow those people to speak for themselves? Technology would certainly allow their views to be seen or heard in a way that did not involve them being ventriloquised by an old, white, middle-class male. And let’s be clear: Sir David Attenborough is not a climate change expert. There’s no reason to think he knows any more about climate change, its causes, and the viability of potential solutions than, say, you do. COP24 , as dry and mundane as it may sound, is to turn the theory, knowledge and understanding of experts into practical, effective change. “The people” - whoever they are - have no useful contribution to make to that process, particularly at a time when they have so consistently proven themselves to be incapable of making good choices. The cocktail of superficiality, the relegation of the importance of expertise and the assumption of consensus that has produced this catchpenny gimmick has a name, as it turns out. It’s called populism. Again, you may think that populism is a good thing. On the other hand, you may, like me, find it hugely troubling. But what is clear is that populism cannot be good only when it leads to David Attenborough speaking for the people of the world on climate change, and bad only when it leads to Brexit.
  21

 21 : COP23_UK194
NICOLA Sturgeon used her landmark address at the UN Climate Change conference in Germany to call on the world’s developed nations to take urgent actions to “turn the ambitions of Paris into reality”. The First Minister was one of the main speakers at the event in Bonn, addressing an audience of heads of state and ministers with her appeal for the Paris climate accord to be implemented. At previous conferences, Scotland has spoken on the fringes but yesterday the First Minister was asked to speak to the main hall on behalf of the world’s regions and devolved governments. She told delegates: “We must now urgently agree the specific pledges - and agree the operating manual which will enable us to limit global temperature increases to well below 2C and preferably below 1.5C.”Now, that doesn’t simply require impressive targets for the next two decades. It requires urgent action in the next two years as well and it requires all countries, developed countries especially, to contribute fair shares.” The Scottish Government has set a target to reduce emissions by 42 per cent by 2020. Sturgeon said she was aiming for an “early decision” to set an even more ambitious target of “net zero emissions” in the years to come. While Scotland, as a devolved nation worked well with the UK on climate change, where her government could go further, Sturgeon promised that it would. “Scotland works closely on climate change with partners around the world, from California to Malawi,” she said. “We also work with the UK Government. We welcome the strength of their commitment to the Paris Agreement.”However, Scotland will go further where we can - for example, we have recently set an earlier target than the UK for phasing out new diesel and petrol cars.” The SNP leader added that role of the devolved and regional government was especially important given the Trump administration’s decision not to ratify the Paris agreement, with the President calling it “unfair”. The US is the only signatory to the Paris agreement not to ratify. Sturgeon said: “There is no doubt that devolved, regional and local governments are emerging as a powerful force for good in the fight against climate change.”We recognise the economic and social opportunities of a just tran- sition to create new jobs; to protect our natural environment; and to tackle pollution and save lives. “But, above all else, we understand this - tackling climate change is an overwhelming moral obligation that we owe to this and future generations.” Sturgeon added: “The message of cities, regions and devolved governments around the world to UN member states is this - our ambitions must live up to the scale of the challenge, and our actions must live up to our ambitions.”If they do, we will stand with you as proud partners. We will work with you to go further and faster together.” Mary Church, from Friends of the Earth Scotland, said: “Climate change is a global problem that doesn’t respect borders so the world’s nations have to come together to decide and agree on how we are going to tackle this existential crisis for humanity.”These are bleak times in many ways, with the rise of the right and the very real impacts of climate change being already felt all around the world.” Church added: “Nations and people’s movements are looking for leadership. If Scotland can step up and provide some of that, all the better.” The chairman of Stop Climate Chaos Scotland, Tom Ballantine, said Sturgeon being asked to speak at the conference was proof the world was noticing Scotland’s environmental efforts. He said: “Scotland should be proud to be invited to speak at such a high-level event during the COP23 talks. It highlights the important role we are taking in setting the ambitious targets needed to not only tackle climate change but also provide climate justice.”Climate change is happening now and is already seriously affecting the lives of the world’s poorest people; those in communities that have done the least to cause the problem. “The fact that the First Minister used her speech to highlight this growing injustice, and call for urgent and early action from those who have caused the climate crisis, is to be welcomed.” Ballantine added:
“When it comes to climate change, what Scotland does gets noticed right around the world, so it was great to see Scotland’s First Minister representing the interests of the planet’s states, regions and devolved governments at this year’s UN climate conference.”
  22

 22 : COP21_UK40
Taipei, Taiwan - Delta announced that it joined the ‘Road to Paris’ initiative by the Carbon Disclosure Project and has committed to a 30% reduction in its electricity intensity by the year 2020, which follows a 50% reduction already achieved by the company over the past five years. Delta Electronics will actively participate in a series of events that reflect its commitment to sustainability during the upcoming COP21 . Delta will present its 21 green buildings, which it has constructed over the past 10 years, at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. In addition, Delta will organize a side event, which has been approved by the United Nations COP21 General Secretariat, to share its knowledge and achievements in energy savings and the construction of green buildings. Mr. Ping Cheng, chief executive officer of Delta Electronics, emphasized, ‘Delta has a long-term commitment to sustainability. From 2010 to 2014, we successfully reduced our electricity intensity (electricity use per product value) by 50% compared to 2009 and in the past 10 years we have constructed 21 green buildings. Delta is now enhancing our commitment by engaging in the CDP’s Road to Paris initiative and promising a further 30% reduction in electricity intensity by 2020, and we are expanding our commitment to the whole group.’ Ms. Shan-Shan Guo, chief brand officer of Delta Electronics and executive director of Delta Electronics Foundation, said, ‘Delta is honored to have received permission by the UN COP21 General Secretariat to organize a side event at the Climate Generations areas during COP21 . After 10 years of implementing green buildings, we wish to share our experience by organizing a side event and hosting the ’Delta 21 Green Buildings at COP21 Exhibition’ at the Grand Palais, and show the world the efforts of a corporation that is deeply committed to sustainability.’ Since 2007, the Delta Electronics Foundation has attended the UN Climate Change Conferences annually, and in 2014, it hosted a side event in which Delta introduced their experience on rebuilding the Namasia Elementary School. Over the years, Delta’s efforts to reduce carbon emissions have been recognized by international organizations such as the CDP, which selected Delta for its Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) in 2014-the only company chosen from the Greater China region. For the past five consecutive years, Delta has also been a member of the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) World Index and was a leader in the ICT Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Components in 2015. 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP21 ) will be the most important climate change conference in the past 10 years. We expect the participating countries to reach an agreement to reduce carbon emissions. During COP21 , Delta will use its advanced ‘edge-blending’ projection capabilities to exhibit its entire portfolio of green buildings inside the Grand Palais in Paris, France. The Delta Electronics Foundation will also organize a side event to share Delta’s contributions on green buildings and carbon footprint reduction. Contact: Delta Group 186, Ruey Kuang Road Neihu, Taipei 11491 Taiwan, R.O.C Tel: +886-2-8797-2088 Email: HYPERLINK mailto:news@delta.com.tw news@delta.com.tw [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  23

 23 : COP21_UK305
India, one of the world’ s largest coal users, will cut back on its investments in the fuel if the new climate deal due to be struck next week in Paris delivers more money to help it shift to cleaner sources of energy such as solar power, a senior negotiator said on Wednesday. We’ ve made it very clear that solar and wind is our first commitment, said Ajay Mathur, director general of India’ s Bureau of Energy Efficiency, at the Paris talks, HYPERLINK known as COP21 . Hydro, nuclear, all of these non-carbon sources are what we will develop to the largest extent we can, he told reporters. But it has to be affordable. He was speaking as campaigners from a fossil fuel divestment movement said the number of investors shunning coal, gas and oil has surged ahead of the Paris conference. At least 500 institutions with more than $3.4tn in assets have pledged to avoid or cut holdings in fossil fuels, said activist groups 350.org and Divest-Invest. That represents a big jump from a year ago, when 181 institutions representing about $50bn in assets were committed to such a step, they said. A spate of city councils, banks, pension funds, churches and universities have pledged to cut back or shun coal investments this year. One of the most striking commitments came last month when Allianz, the German insurance group, said it would pull more than € 4bn ($4.3bn) from companies with coal businesses. Earlier this year, the Norwegian parliament decided the country’ s $857bn sovereign wealth fund should withdraw from any company in which coal represents more than 30 per cent of the business. Both moves came in the wake of a divestment campaign that began on US college campuses more than two years ago in an effort to make fossil fuel holdings as unpopular as tobacco or investments in apartheid-era South Africa. Churches and wealthy individuals with an interest in climate change then joined, including the heirs to the Rockefeller oil fortune. The momentum in this divestment campaign is accelerating day by day, Stephen Heintz, president of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, told journalists at the Paris climate conference on Wednesday. There is a moral imperative to save the planet and to do so we need to end the fossil fuel era now, he said. Benjamin Sporton, chief executive of the World Coal Association said that although the campaigners’ multi-trillion dollar headline figures seemed large, a lot of the institutions and funds with these assets did not currently have coal holdings and the amount of money actually being pulled out of coal was relatively small. While there are companies and funds saying they want to get out of coal, there are plenty of others that are remaining invested, he told the Financial Times. This was especially the case in South East Asia and in large countries such as India, where governments are planning to continue using coal for electricity. Mr Sporton said he hoped the Paris climate talks would help drive the use of technology that allows coal to be burnt more efficiently and cleanly, a chief aim of his members. Coal companies have borne the brunt of the divestment push because coal produces more carbon emissions when burnt than other fossil fuels such as natural gas. But it remains an abundant and cheap source of energy in many developing countries and is the biggest source of electricity globally, accounting for a 41 per cent share of the world’ s electricity, according to the International Energy Agency. That global share is expected to fall to just over 30 per cent by 2030, the agency says, as fast-growing renewable energy sources supply a larger proportion of electricity. However, divestments have not been the only feature of this year’ s assault on coal. Banks have made public their refusal to fund some coal investments. In Australia, where India’ s Adani group wants to build the country’ s largest proposed coal project, Standard Chartered has said it will no longer be involved in the increasingly controversial development. Banks including Deutsche and HSBC had already steered clear. And multilateral commitments to the coal industry have been reined in. Last month member states of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development agreed limits on export subsidies for coal-fired power stations, following unilateral initiatives to curb export credits by countries including the UK and US. But divestment has its critics. Anne Stausboll, chief executive of Calpers, the California state pension system, has called lobbying for divestment flawed and said it is more constructive to engage with companies where the fund invests. However California approved a divestment law in October. Calpers will evaluate divestment as outlined in the bill , the fund said. As of June it had $57m invested in 27 thermal coal companies. Listen to the HYPERLINK World Weekly podcast
  24

 24 : COP26_UK299
THE COP26 climate summit is due to end today, with negotiators scrambling to salvage a significant deal on reducing global carbon emissions. Cop26 president Alok Sharma yesterday warned “time is running out” in Glasgow for the 180 countries at the summit to agree to a deal. While the summit will officially end today, Boris Johnson indicated negotiations could stretch into the weekend as happened in previous years. China and the US, the globe’s two largest CO2 emitters, on Wednesday agreed to team up to phase out fossil fuels in an unexpected deal. Pundits have said the deal provides hope that China could come to the table and agree to a deal to strengthen commitments made in the 2015 Paris Climate Accord. Sharma said proposals over reducing fossil fuel subsidies and accelerating reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are still crucial stumbling blocks. “Whilst we have made progress we are not there yet on the most critical issues. There is still a lot more work to be done - time is running out,” he said. “As I speak my ministerial facilitators and negotiators are rolling up their sleeves and working hard to find solutions to some of the most intractable issues.” The draft text of the Cop26 deal notes “with serious concern” that existing global agreements are insufficient to keep global warming to 1.5 degrees. The draft, which sets out what negotiators hope will be the outcome of Cop26 , asks countries to “revisit and strengthen the 2030 targets in their nationally determined contributions, as necessary to align with the Paris Agreement temperature goal by the end of 2022”. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  25

 25 : COP25_UK135
THE nuclear industry is launching a last-ditch appeal to ministers about the merits of the power source ahead of a decision on a crucial funding deal that could determine developers’ appetite. The Government is expected to decide soon on whether to push ahead with a new model to finance nuclear power plants, which aims to bring down the cost by passing some of the risk to consumers. French nuclear power developer EDF, which is building Hinkley Point C plant in Somerset, argues the mechanism can help bring down the overall cost of its next proposed power plant, Sizewell C in Suffolk. This week, Dr Tim Stone, chairman of the Nuclear Industry Association and a former government adviser, will tell industry leaders that the Government and energy sector needs “credible plans” to grow the amount of energy generated from low carbon energy sources. Speaking at a summit on Thursday, he is expected to warn industry leaders that the world will be watching the UK when Glasgow hosts the United Nations Climate Change Conference (known as COP26) in November. He is expected to say: “The Government and the energy sector need credible plans, not just good intentions, if we are to show real international leadership.”We need to be working together - renewables and nuclear - to push for real progress towards COP26. “The good news is there are nuclear projects waiting in the wings, ready to deliver clean power, jobs and investment and we have the means to do this at a dramatically reduced cost starting now - not in several years’ time.” The UK’s nuclear industry is at a critical juncture, with almost all of the current fleet of nuclear power stations set to retire this decade. Yet developers and governments increasingly balk at the cost of new nuclear plants, leaving EDF and its partner, China’s state-backed CGN, the only companies building new plants here. CGN’s involvement is controversial due to concerns about the Communist state’s growing influence and opposition from the US. Under the new financing model known as regulated asset base, investors get a steady return from the project even during the building phase.
‘There are nuclear projects waiting in the wings, ready to deliver clean power’
  26

 26 : COP24_UK84
David Quinn’s claim that “diesel cars emit lots of carbon dioxide and will have to be phased out” is without scientific foundation (“Road to a carbon tax is too bumpy for Leo”, Comment, last week). Anyway, carbon taxes will not solve this problem but will add to the cost of living and increase the price of our exports. We could change to electric propulsion, but this is not a viable answer at the present time. It cannot apply to the trucking and heavy-machinery industry, and “range anxiety” means it is viable only in city cars. To go electric in the future, we must put in place comprehensive infrastructure, starting with generation. But can we create the capacity to supply the cumulative demands of electric cars, city buses, home and workplace heating, industry and so on? Or will this be dependent on “when the wind blows”, to quote former minister Pat Rabbitte when asked about continuity of supply in the face of an ESB strike. Jack Leighton Crossmolina, Co Mayo Driving to despair While Quinn’s piece was interesting and thoughtprovoking, I suspect the assertion that “diesel cars emit lots of carbon dioxide” may be misleading. Those cars that use petrol instead of diesel in a spark-ignition engine emit higher levels of CO2 and lower levels of particulate matter and other pollutants. Cars that burn diesel in a compression engine emit lower levels of CO2, but alarmingly high levels of chemicals and particulate pollutants that are harmful to human health - especially respiratory health. The mass migration to petrol in the UK has probably yielded better air quality, but led to an escalation in the volume of greenhouse CO2. Donal Hoban, by email Roadblock ahead I have been wondering why the Irish government has been sitting on its hands regarding climate-change action. Quinn’s article, unfortunately, answers the question in simple terms. What government knows how to make truly carbon-busting policies politically and publicly acceptable? And a more rhetorical question: when will we wake up and realise the steam train that is severe climate change coming down the track? I believe the scientists who contributed to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, and I believe the human race is in for challenging times. The sooner we act, the more we mitigate against catastrophe. Peter McMahon, by email Hiding the facts Given global temperatures over the past eight months, we can now see the temperature increase of 2015-16, at the time of the Paris agreement, was a natural El Ni’f1o type driven by geothermal heating. Yet this was the false foundation on which Paris 2015 and the IPCC’s 2018 special report were built. There is, therefore, no risk of the “potential environmental catastrophe” that Quinn mentions. Rather, there is widespread suppression in the media of any research findings contrary to the dogma that CO2 emissions are a dangerous threat. Tony Carey Enniskerry, Co Wicklow Asleep at the wheel There was not a word in your newspaper on COP 24 , the 24th UN conference on climate change in Katowice, Poland. Not a word on the reports by many conference speakers on the continuing rise of surface and sea temperatures around the globe, or the continuing failure by the world’s big powers to curb rising carbon HYPERLINK www.emissions.No report of the tense standoff between Russia, America and Saudi Arabia on the one side and the rest of the world’s nations on the other. Apparently such things are of trifling interest to your readers. One wonders how bad the climate crisis has to become before The Sunday Times wakes up and pays attention. Cormac O’Raifeartaigh Dunmore East, Co Waterford Fuming over car choice Quinn hit the nail on the head, as we can see from taking a look at the latest conference in Poland. I got a diesel car because I wanted to be
“green”, but now suddenly I’m a polluter. Fintan Ryan Borris, Co Carlow
  27

 27 : COP25_UK252
Are you feeling a little flygskam after your summer holidays? Well you should be, unless Elton’s arranged a ‘carbon offset’ for you, as he did for the Duke and Duchess of Sussex (in which case, crack on). In these fragile, environmentally aware times, the ‘flight shame’ movement is spreading around the world at speed, picking its victims willy-nilly. Think of it like the conceptual equivalent of Ulrika Jonsson: well-meaning, slightly rapacious and, to some, almost irresistibly Swedish. But while you think about how you’ll ever be able to look your grandchildren in the eye again after that long-haul trip, pick a celebrity green warrior to align with. And then be sure to recycle this magazine after you’ve read it. We will check, you know. SIR DAVID ATTENBOROUGH ‘I have never run a car,’ the Granddaddy of Green has said. ‘I could say that this is because I have this extremely tender environmentalist conscience, but the fact is I hate driving.’ He actually feels the same way about elephants: doesn’t ride them, because he can’t stand ‘big, tusky beasts’. I made that bit up. CARRIE SYMONDS Say what you like about her relationship, but having an environmental campaigner in Boris Johnson’s inner sanctum can only be a good thing. And if she thinks she can change him, she might just be able to save the planet. Let’s hope she doesn’t prorogue the partnership any time soon. GRETA THUNBERG What did your teenager do this summer? Did they sail 3,000 miles to New York, with only a bucket for a toilet and three blokes for company, before telling the UN how to save this godforsaken planet? No, they played Fortnite until their thumbs went rigid and started secretly vaping in the shower, didn’t they? All hail Greta. CROWN PRINCESS VICTORIA OF SWEDEN mm Sweden’s heir apparent I s a patron of something called the Junior Water Prize. The 2019 win- announced last month in Stockholm, was presumably condensation. Yet again. PIERRE CASIRAGHI You wouldn’t think a principality famous for motor racing and superyachts could produce anything helpful for the planet, but it was Casiraghi, grandson of Monaco’s Grace Kelly, who offered Greta a lift to New York. THE SUSSEXES Prince Harry recently said that he travels commercial ‘99 per cent of the time’, apart from when there’s a ‘unique circumstance to ensure that my family are safe’. Safe from what? Easy Jet paninis i and boozy stag dos? In that case, I don’t blame him. LEONARDO DiCAPRIO Some people reckon Leonardo’s $5 million pledge to help the Amazon is the clearest sign of his commitment to the environment. Others will say that it’s his campaigning documentaries. But what about this for a stand: these days, he only dates women born after the first United Nations Climate Change Conference . In 1995. GISELE BUNDCHEN Among numerous achievements as an eco warrior, the Brazilian supermodel and Greenest Celebrity at the 2011 International Green Awards also pioneered the ‘horse walk’ - when models pick their knees up and kick their feet out to ‘stomp’ down the runway. And who among us can truly say we understood the animal kingdom before that action? CRISTIANO RONALDO As the world’s most-followed individual on Instagram, Ronaldo was congratulated for posting about the Amazon fires recently. But he’s definitely not a birth striker: in 2017, when he already had a seven-year-old via a surrogate, he had twins by another surrogate, then another baby with his girlfriend five months later. That’s a quick-fire hat trick. STELLA McCARTNEY If you’ve ever doubted Stella’s commitment to the planet, just mosey on down to her flagship sustainable-luxury store on Bond Street. There, you’ll find rocks shipped from her father’s farm on the Mull of Kintyre sitting on a newly reinforced floor, spray-painted the perfect kind of grey to complement the rest of the shop.
  28

 28 : COP22_UK100
THE United Nations came to Cardiff last week when students from across Wales took part in a mock United Nations conference on climate change. Students from across the country joined the debate and represented countries such as Brazil, USA, the Philippines and Saudi Arabia. The conference, run annually by Size of Wales in partnership with Welsh Centre for International Affairs, gives young people an opportunity to discuss the issue of climate change from the perspective of world leaders. Topics discussed ranged from clean energy, protecting rainforests, disaster management and how to finance these. “The conference encourages young people to be more engaged with climate change and political issues” said Janie Pridham, education officer at Size of Wales. “It also helps them develop understanding of other nations and cultures and to consider the responsibility of Wales, both locally and globally.” She added: “The standard of debate was extremely high this year.”It was wonderful to see the students take on their roles in such a realistic way. “Some delegates were quoting Trump and there was even a smear campaign between countries.” The aim of the day was for delegates to agree an international resolution on the issue of climate change, similar to the UN climate change COP22 talks that were held in Marrakesh in November. This year Sophie Howe, the Future Generations Commissioner, joined the event, acting as the secretary general and presiding over teams of three pupils representing 20 countries and organisations. “The bright, engaged young people I met today not only understand the critical point we have reached in terms of tackling climate change but understand that it is they who will be experiencing the positive or negative impact of our actions today.” the Commissioner said. “If we continue to give them a voice and an opportunity to influence, it gives me hope that there is a better future for everyone in Wales and that we will be a nation that makes a positive contribution to global wellbeing.” Size of Wales is a unique initiative which is helping to protect an area of rainforest twice the size of Wales as part of a national response to climate change. MOCKCOP is a highlight in its education programme, which also offers free workshops and assemblies to schools across Wales. The event was sponsored by Jenny Rathbone AM.
  29

 29 : COP23_UK156
The African Development Bank achieved a 100% investment in renewable energy in 2017, a major landmark in its commitment to clean energy and efficiency. Power generation projects with a cumulative 1,400 megawatts exclusively from renewables were approved during the year, with plans to increase support for renewable energy projects in 2018 under the New Deal on Energy for Africa. According to Bank President, Akinwumi Adesina, ‘’We are clearly leading on renewable energy. We will help Africa unlock its full energy potential, while developing a balanced energy mix to support industrialization. Our commitment is to ensure 100% climate screening for all Bank financed projects.” The share of renewable energy projects as a portion of the Bank’s portfolio of power generation investments increased from 14% in 2007-2011, to 64% in 2012-2016. The Africa Renewable Energy Initiative (AREI) whose goal is to deliver 300 Gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy in 2030 and 10 GW by 2020, is now based within the Bank, as requested by African Heads of State and Government. The G7 has promised to commit US$ 10 billion to support the initiative, which came out of COP21 and subsequently approved by the African Union. On November 8, 2017, the African Bank Group approved its Second Climate Change Action Plan, 2016-2020 (CCAP2) as a clear message of its commitment to helping African countries mobilize resources to support the implementation of the Intended Nationally Determined Contributions of Regional Member Countries, in ways that will not hinder development. The approval of the action plan echoes discussions at COP23 in Bonn, Germany to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change and achieve the Paris Agreement’s goal of keeping global temperature rises to 1.5C. The CCAP2 is designed to incorporate the Bank’s High 5 priorities in the Paris Agreement, the 2030 development agenda, the Bank’s Green Growth Framework and the lessons learned in the implementation of the first climate change action plan (CCAP1), 2011-2015 As part of its wider mandate under the New Deal on Energy for Africa, the Board of Directors of the African Development Bank on December 15, 2017, approved an investment of US $ 20 million in the Evolution II Fund -a Pan-African clean and sustainable energy private equity fund. The Bank’s investment in Evolution II Fund reflects the High 5 development priorities of the Bank, the agenda to light up and Power Africa, and the Bank’s commitment to promote renewable energy and efficiency in Africa. The Evolution II Fund is expected to contribute to green and sustainable growth by creating 2,750 jobs and building on the track record of the Evolution One Fund (which created 1,495 jobs, of which 20% were for women, and generated 838 MW of wind energy and 87MW Solar PV energy). It is estimated that the Evolution One Fund achieved 1,190,469 of Carbon dioxide (CO2) emission savings annually In line with its commitment to renewable energy and ongoing institutional reforms, in the first quarter of 2017, the Bank appointed Ousseynou Nakoulima as the Director for Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency. He brings global experience in developing and managing programs and partnerships for driving renewable energy, from his work at the Green Climate Fund. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  30

 30 : COP23_UK171
One year after the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on climate change, the Bonn Conference, which opens on 6 November in Germany, will be an opportunity for nations around the world to show their ambition for climate action and their determination to keep their promises. “While Paris represented one of those moments where the best of humanity achieved an agreement so important to our collective futures, Bonn represents how we will move forward to fulfill its promise”, said the Executive Secretary of United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Patricia Espinosa, on the margins of a ministerial meeting in Fiji on 17 October 2017 to prepare for the Bonn Conference of the Convention’s States Parties. “We are running out of time to turn things around. To do so, we must significantly increase our efforts to reduce emissions and our carbon footprints,” she added. The Paris Agreement, which was adopted by the 196 Parties to the UNFCCC in December 2015 in the French capital after which it is named, calls on countries to combat climate change by limiting the rise of global temperature below 2 degrees Celsius and strive not to exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius. A year ago, the Marrakech Climate Conference concluded with the Marrakech Action Proclamation, for our climate and sustainable development, in which the UNFCCC States Parties affirmed their “commitment” to the “full implementation” of the Paris Agreement. Today, 169 Parties have ratified the Agreement. At the Bonn Conference, informally known as COP 23 , countries will seek to move forward in completing the rule book for operationalizing the Paris Agreement. The Conference, which runs until 17 November, is chaired by Fiji, an island State particularly affected by the impacts of climate change. “Never has our work been more necessary. We see this with respect to the extreme weather events affecting almost every continent throughout the world,” said Ms. Espinosa. COP 23 President and Fiji Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama agrees. “We can no longer ignore this crisis. Whether it is fires in California, Portugal and Spain. Flooding in Nigeria, India and Bangladesh. The dramatic Arctic melt. Ice breaking off the continent of Antarctica. The recent hurricanes that devastated the Caribbean and the southern United States [. . . ] It’s hard to find any part of the world that is unaffected by these events”, he said at the ministerial meeting in Fiji. Bonn Conference an opportunity to boost climate risk management efforts In an op-ed published in October 2017, Ms. Espinosa, alongside the Administrator of the UN Development Programme (UNDP), Achim Steiner, and the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Disaster Risk Reduction, Robert Glasser, said the Bonn Conference “provides an opportunity to not only accelerate emission reductions but also boost the serious work of ensuring that the management of climate risk is integrated into disaster risk management as a whole.” A week before the opening of the Bonn Conference, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) announced that the levels of carbon dioxide (C02) surged at
“record-breaking speed” to new highs in 2016. The Bonn Conference will feature a series of meetings and events, including the high-level segment, on 15 November and 16 November, attended by Heads of State and Government, Ministers, and UN Secretary-General Ant’f3nio Guterres. Mr. Guterres has invited leaders to consider championing six high-impact areas at a special Climate Summit in 2019. These areas are investment in clean technology, maturing carbon pricing, enabling the energy transition, risk mitigation and building resilience, augmenting the contribution of sub-national actors and business and mobilizing climate finance. “Increasing ambition is the only way to keep the global temperature rise well below 2 degrees Celsius this century, and as close to 1.5 degree as possible. By focusing on these sectors, we can substantially reduce the gap between where we are and where we need to be,” said UN Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed, at the pre-COP meeting in Fiji. Among the side events scheduled at COP 23 , several will be organized under the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action to show how cities, regions, private sector companies and investors are trying to implement the Paris Agreement in the areas of energy, water, agriculture, oceans and coastal areas, human settlements, transportation, industry, and forests. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  31

 31 : COP24_UK250
At COP24 in Katowice, Poland, Solvay is reconfirming its commitment to continue acting vigorously in the fight against climate change presenting effective sustainable solutions. We have stepped up our sustainability ambition this year and opted for a target aimed at reducing the greenhouse gas emissions of our operations in absolute value. What does this mean No business growth at the expense of our planet. Essentially, our 2025 emissions should be lower by at least 1Mt CO2 compared to the 2017 level, at constant scope. The Global Business Unit (GBU) Aroma Performance has committed to powering one of its main production plants with solar energy. This is a big step forward helping push the Flavors Fragrances and the Food Beverage industries to become more sustainable. The Jasper Solar Power Plant is a large facility recently inaugurated in South Carolina, USA, with Solvay as one of the project’s main partners. To further develop this partnership, some of the Group’s Business Units will be the power plant’s main customers. Aroma Performance- one of the participating GBUs- pledged to buy 20% of the plant’s production, starting in 2019 and for the next 15 years. This electricity will be used to power the GBU’s facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana: 75% of the factory’s energy needs will be covered in this way, resulting in the reduction of its carbon emissions by 14 ktons per year. The virtuous cycle of sustainability This is all part of a strategy deployed by Solvay’s Business Unit to push the entire industry in the direction of renewable energy procurement. ‘Now that we have secured this solar power deal for our Baton Rouge plant, we want to present this concept to the customers of our customers, such as perfumers for example,’ explains Guillaume. To that end, Aroma Performance teams recently approached the French perfumers association, Prodarom: ‘They were very enthusiastic about this new type of initiative and want to support us,’ says Vincent Rollier, Head of communications at Aroma Performance. ‘It’s in line with the values they want to promote.’ The key idea here is that perfumers, as well as other brands and manufacturers along with them, could ask their other providers to source renewable energies as well, setting off a virtuous cycle of sustainability in an industry where this is a somewhat new approach. ‘Sustainable energy is not yet a key subject in the FF industry,’ confirms Guillaume, ‘but Solvay, as a key supplier in this field, can push things forward and serve as an example to de-carbonate raw materials in this industry.’ Contact: Tel: 084823 96376 HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  32

 32 : COP23_UK79
A POPULAR holiday destination for Britons could be gone by the end of the century as it continues to sink due to rising sea levels, as world leaders are called to act at the COP23 conference. Getty The Maldives is rapidly sinking and could be gone in the next 80 years The Pacific Islands contain some of the famous idyllic holiday destinations chosen by Britons for sun and luxury,~ With sea levels rising dramatically in the past few decades, the islands will suffer the most as they eventually become entirely submerged. Tuvalu could be uninhabitable by 2050, with some islands such as Kiribati being completely gone by 2100. The Pacific island nations have urged leaders around the world to act after the COP23 conference in Germany discussed climate change and implementing the 2015 Paris agreement on global warming. The COP23 The Maldives is a famous destination for honeymooners and families, and this is also at risk of completely disappearing. With the lowest elevation in the world and just an average height of four feet above sea level, this too could be gone in the next century. The Solomon Islands have also been affected, with five of them already having completely sunk. New Zealand has become the first nation to create a new visa category for people who live on the islands, and are a product of island displacement. Getty Pacific Islands has warned that many islands are sinking, threatening the homes of many Professor Tim Flannery, a climate change expert at La Trobe University, told news.com.au: “It’s very concerning times, particularly if you live in a small island nation.”Many of those nations are already making agreements to deal with the problem as it develops.” He explained further: “As sea water rises it starts to penetrate the freshwater on the land, that’s the most immediate threat for a lot of the island.”Beach and coastal erosion and flooding is another threat. With these two factors it’s entirely possible within the next 30 years some islands could be rendered uninhabitable.” Getty The Maldives is a popular destination for honeymooners, but may not be around in the next decade They aren’t the only tourist destinations that could disappear within 50 years.~ Rising sea levels are also occurring due to glaciers melting as the planet warms up. The famous Columbia Glacier in Alaska is at risk due to the speed in which it is melting. Related articles UK weather: 2017 could be one of top three HOTTEST years ever recorded Great Barrier Reef DYING: Corals among 62 natural wonders under threat Earth under THREAT: Humans must do THIS to save the planet
  33

 33 : COP26_UK99
THE COP26 UN climate summit is likely to have had E2little impactE2 on the spread of Covid-19 in Scotland, experts have said. Public Health Scotland (PHS) was also clear there was E2no evidence of any connectionE2 between cases of the new Omicron variant and the summit E2 which was attended by leading politicians from across the globe, as well as tens of thousands of protesters. A new report found that 353 people across Scotland who were infected with coronavirus reported attending an event at or were linked to the gathering E2 such as attending the summit itself, or taking part in workshops, protests or marches. The study, which looked at the impact the climate change conference in Glasgow had on the pandemic in Scotland, found over the period of COP26 from October 31 to November 13, around two in every 1000 people affiliated to the event tested positive for the virus, either using a lateral flow device or a PCR test. That compares to a survey of the overall Scottish population that estimated between 11 and 12 people out of every 1000 were infected between November 6 and 13. READ MORE:C2Omicron may have seeded in Scotland at COP26 , suggests top scientist The report said that although the seven-day incidence rate of infection in Scotland began to increase during the period of the summit E2 going from 330 cases per 100,000 on November 1 to 389 cases per 100,000 on November 13 E2 this was E2primarily drivenE2 by rising cases amongst youngsters aged between five and 11 years old. In the second week of the summit, case rates rose amongst adults aged between 20 and 49, but these E2stabilised and started to decline in the two weeks after COP26 alongside the rates amongst the younger age groupE2. And while the summit took place in Glasgow, the report found that NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde had the lowest seven-day incidence rate of coronavirus infections of all the mainland health boards for the period of the event. The report said: E2Data available to PHS from enhanced and routine Covid-19 surveillance does not indicate a direct COP26 contribution to the increase in Covid-19 infections nationwide during the summit and there is no evidence of any connection between Omicron cases and COP26 . COP26 has had little impact on Covid-19 epidemiology in Scotland.E2 Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  34

 34 : COP26_UK344
A coalition of companies including Top 100 advice firm EQ Investors is calling on financial firms to set higher governance standards in their articles of association.~ The B Corp Finance Coalition UK, which has 11 founding members including Coutts, Montanaro and Tribe Impact Capital alongside EQ, launched its campaign to make stakeholder alignment part of directors’ duties at COP26 today. This would move the duty of financial firms away from prioritising ’ shareholder supremacy’ and place more focus on their purpose, according to EQ CEO Sophie Kennedy. ’ It is about expanding the fiduciary duty of businesses,’ she said. Speaking at an event organised by the coalition of companies at COP26 in Glasgow, Kennedy said the changes would make sure companies stayed on track~with goals around issues such as climate change. ’ There needs to be a realisation from companies and their leaders that there needs be change.~You can set as many standards as you like but you need to be held to account,’ she said. Amy Clarke, chief impact officer at Tribe Impact Capital, said the changes amount to a ’ fundamental shift in corporate governance’ that is required if financial companies want to have a positive impact. She said changing articles of association would make sure ’ purpose defines directors’ duties’ rather than shareholder interests. B Corps businesses meet the highest standards of verified social and environmental performance. To be awarded the status, their~entire business process goes through a thorough assessment. However, Clarke said the coalition’ s campaign was not about every firm becoming a B Corp. ’ We want businesses to strengthen corporate governance to become future fit, deliver on climate ambitions and deliver on meeting UN sustainable development goals.’ Read more of our COP26 reporting here: COP26 : Tax boomers to save planet for young - ex-diplomat Fidelity CEO Richards: Central banks can deploy green QE Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  35

 35 : COP25_UK111
The UN secretary general has warned that the planet is close to “the point of no return” and branded global efforts to combat climate change “utterly inadequate”, as world leaders gathered for a vital conference on the Paris Agreement. Antonio Guterres issued the stark warning ahead of the fortnight-longUN climate change conference ( COP25 The Alliance of Small Island States, representing nations most at risk from rising seas, views the talks as the last chance to avert potential catastrophe, while Save the Children warns that 33 million African children are facing hunger as a result of cyclones and droughtsmade more likely by climate change. “The point of no return is no longer over the horizon,” Mr Guterres told reporters in Madrid. “It is in sight and hurtling towards us.” Noting that the world hasthe scientific knowledge and the technical means to limit global warming, theUN chief denounced policymakers’lacklustre response in the face of a “global climate emergency”. Mr Guterres said: “The signals of hope are multiplying.Public opinion is waking up everywhere, young people are showing remarkable leadership and mobilisation.”More and more cities, financial institutions and businesses are committing to a 1.5C pathway ??? what is still lacking is political will. “Political will to put a price on carbon. Political will to stop subsidies on fossil fuels. Political will to stop building coal power plants from 2020 onwards. Political will to shift taxation from income to carbon. Taxing pollution instead of people.” He said that for the leaders of all countries to show “anything less” than accountability and responsibility, and a willingness to commit to ambitious targets “would be a betrayal of our entire human family and all generations to come”.But he insisted his message was “one of hope, not of despair. Our war against nature must stop and we know that that is possible.” Some 70 countries - many of them among the most vulnerable to climate change - have pledged to stop emitting more greenhouse gases by 2050. But some of the world’s largest emitters are yet to do so. Mr Guterres said he hoped the Madrid meeting would prompt governments to aim for net-zero emissions by 2050,ahead of a deadline to do so atCOP26 in Glasgow next year. Last week, the UN’s World Meteorological Organisation warned that the level of greenhouse gases had reached another all-time high, “with no sign of a slowdown, let alone a decline”. Four years after the Paris Agreement, negotiators are still to tackle the contentious issue of creating a worldwide market for emissions- a key element of the sixth article of the 2015 accord. “We are here to find answers for article six, not to find excuses,” Mr Guterres said. While these talks represent the last chance for countries to keep the Paris Agreement aliveby firming up their targets for 2050 after a five-year grace period, the conference also marks the first since Mike Pompeo’s announcement that the US would turn its back on the accord, as the US president, Donald Trump, had long threatened. The US will be represented by Marcia Bernicat, the assistant state secretary for international environmental affairs, while the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, will also lead a delegation of Democratic lawmakers. The talks were initially to be hosted in Chile, butdeadly anti-government protests in itscapital, Santiago, saw the conference relocated to Spain. Greta Thunbergis making her way across the Atlantic in a catamaran in order to attend the talks, and is expected to land in Lisbon today.
  36

 36 : COP25_UK2
MADRID, Spain – What: Africa Day When: 10 December 2019 Where: Room 3, Hall 4 at IFEMA Conference Centre, Madrid Time: 18:30 to 20:00 Who: Jointly organized by the African Union Commission, African Development Bank (AfDB.org), and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa Officials, experts, activists and journalists are invited to take part and cover the Africa Day at the COP25 conference in Madrid on 10 December 2019, in room 3 at the IFEMA Conference Centre. During this event, leaders will provide an update of the global commitments made at the world’s leading climate change meeting. Africa Day marks Africa’s presence and participation at the various United Nations Climate Change Conference (UNFCCC) sessions since COP 17. Africa Day provides a platform for the continent’s decision makers and other stakeholders to engage in a dialogue that informs the region’s course of action around climate change. The discussions will touch on effective means of implementation (finance, capacity building, and technology development and transfer) of the Paris Agreement. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). Media Contacts: African Union Esther Azaa Tankou Head of Information Division Directorate of Information and Communication African Union Commission Email: HYPERLINK mailto:YambouE@africa-union.org YambouE@africa-union.org African Development Bank Gershwin Wanneburg Communication and External Relations Department African Development Bank Email: HYPERLINK mailto:g.wanneburg@afdb.org g.wanneburg@afdb.org Pan-African Parliament Ntsiuoa Sekete Senior Communications and Media Officer Pan-African Parliament Email: HYPERLINK mailto:ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  37

 37 : COP21_UK86
Text of report by US-based Nigerian news site Huhu Online on 1 December [Report by Emmanuel Asiwe: ” COP 21 : Buhari seeks legally binding agreement on climate change”] President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday [30 November] in Paris called on world leaders to forge a united front to save Lake Chad’s ecosystem from further depletion caused by the adverse effects of climate change. United Nations Climate Change Conference , commonly referred to as COP 21 , in Paris, Buhari said climate change has continued to pose a threat to Nigeria’s security and development. “At the sub-regional level, we are saddled with the challenge of the drying up of the Lake Chad Basin, which is resulting in the total wipe out of livelihoods of many communities surrounding this transboundary natural resource,” he said. “Regrettably, the world is leaving behind millions of people who depend on the Lake for their survival. The Government of Nigeria welcomes the Lake Chad Development and Climate Resilience Plan, and the Lake Chad Basin Commission and international partners for designing this climate-based Plan.” He noted that in all, the experience of countries sharing the Lake Chad further illustrates the mutual challenge being faced today and which must be collectively addressed without further delay. On Nigeria’s position on the climate change negotiations, Buhari said any meaningful and potential agreement on climate change in Paris, “must draw extensively on the principles of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities.” The president, who shortly before his arrival to Paris approved Nigeria’s Intended National Determined Contributions (INDC) to tackle climate change , said for any agreement in Paris to be durable, “it must recognise not only the emission right but also the survival rights of the citizens of developing countries.” The president also used the occasion of his address to around 150 leaders, who attended the opening ceremony of the summit, to affirm Nigeria’s position of a potential agreement that equitably addresses climate change mitigation and adaptation activities. He said the potential agreement must make provisions for adequate financing, technology transfer and capacity development in the developing countries. The president called for the establishment of an effective means of monitoring, reviewing and verification of availability as well as accessibility of funds to the developing countries in order to address the challenges of climate change. He assured world leaders that his country is ready to support a legally binding and all-encompassing Paris Agreement, which must be fair to all. Source: Huhuh Online in English 1 Dec 15
  38

 38 : COP23_UK39
Click here for full-size image United Nations Climate Change Conference IMAGE ID: WENNPHOTOSSIX583803 HYPERLINK Subject to copyright. Click here for information regarding redistribution of this image.
  39

 39 : COP24_UK30
In the heart of Poland’s coal country, the planet’s future lies in the balance over the next two weeks as leaders gather for the biggest climate change event in years. Scientists, politicians, diplomats, activists and journalists will all converge in the Polish city of Katowice as leaders establish a climate change “rulebook” for countries to follow, and set the stage for more ambitious emissions cuts. This is a crucial time for climate politics. In recent months scientists have outlined the existential threat posed by global warming, even as unashamed climate sceptics are voted into office and activists take to the streets to force action from non-committal leaders. The summit has been described by the UN climate change executive secretary Patricia Espinosa as “Paris 2.0”, a reference to the momentous conference that saw the birth of an international climate agreement three years ago. Understanding that agreement is key to understanding the UN’s 24th “conference of the parties”, or COP24 , and what it means for climate change. What is the Paris climate agreement? Adopted at a previous COP in 2015, the Paris climate agreement set out plans for nations to keep global warming below a target threshold. Governments agreed to keep the increase in global average temperature to “well below” 2C above pre-industrial levels, with a stretch target to limit the increase to 1.5C. The document has been ratified by 184 parties, and it entered into force in November 2016. Since then scientists have been investigating what these different temperature outcomes would mean for the planet. These efforts were summarised in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) recent report, which painted a picture of coral reefs dying, vanishing Arctic sea ice and climate refugees forced from their homes by rising tides. While the two temperatures included in the Paris agreement leave it open to interpretation, many took the stark results of the IPCC report as a clear sign that 1.5C is the only meaningful target. Also contained within the Paris agreement were goals to develop national climate plans by 2020, and finalise a “work programme”, or rulebook, for implementing the agreement by 2018. So why is COP24 so important? Essentially, Paris set out a plan, and this event should be the start of all countries actually doing something about it. With the 2018 deadline nearly past, this is the moment for countries to set guidelines that will govern their efforts to cut greenhouse gas emissions and transition to a green future. Ahead of the national climate plans deadline in 2020, the summit is also an opportunity for countries to set stronger climate action into motion - action that stops the planet warming beyond 1.5C. Richer nations also need to make it clear at COP24 that they intend to support developing nations financially in their green transition. The new evidence that has emerged, including the UN’s own “emissions gap” report, the IPCC’s “wake-up call” and the World Meteorological Organisation’s bulletin on greenhouse gas concentrations will all feed into this process. What will the “rulebook” consist of? The Paris rulebook will spell out how countries track and report on their efforts to tackle climate change, how they communicate their plans, how progress is assessed and how they will strengthen their efforts over time. It should serve to galvanise action and make sure countries are not slacking. Though it will apply to all countries, the rulebook will also need to allow some flexibility so that developing countries can keep up. How do Donald Trump and the US fit into all this? What other problems are likely to come out of COP24 ? Nations such as Saudi Arabia and Australia could prove problematic in the discussions, as could the host nation Poland, which is so reliant on coal that it is unlikely to be too vocal in calling for tougher climate targets. Experts are clear that with current commitments, the world is on track for more like 3C of warming - so massive changes are needed to hit 1.5C. To get there, countries represented at the summit need to work together and trust each other. While this may seem unlikely at such a tumultuous time, it is worth noting that more than 30 countries, including the UK, have already committed to exploring more ambitious climate targets before 2020. A progressive coalition within the event is estimated to make up more than half the countries represented - the question is whether they can organise themselves to make a real difference.
  40

 40 : COP21_UK42
THOUSANDS of people are due to take to the streets of Bristol this weekend to make their views on climate change heard. The Bristol March for Climate Change will take place on Sunday to coincide with United Nations Climate Change Conference , which is taking place in Paris. Starting at 12pm in Castle Park, more than 2,000 people are expected to march across the city centre to College Green to make their voices heard as 147 world leaders discuss environmental issues in the French capital. Organisers of the march say: “We want urgent, legally binding action from world leaders at the UN COP21 in Paris in December - legally binding emissions reductions targets.”So far, after 20 years of meetings, the only thing they have agreed is that we don’t want global warming to exceed 2’c2’baC.
“As Bristol is European Green Capital this year, it’s the perfect chance for the people of Bristol to come together and show the world why we were chosen.” The route will end at College Green, where a rally with speakers and music will begin at 1pm. See Letters - page 10
  41
