 1 : COP22_UK70
The World Bank (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development - IBRD, rated AAA/Aaa) announced today, the launch of US$ 100 million in World Bank green bonds purchased by Bank Al-Maghrib, the Central Bank of Morocco, for its reserves management. Marrakesh, Morocco is hosting the COP22 from November 7 to 18, where international climate leaders will come together to focus on the urgent actions needed to ensure the Paris Agreement is implemented. ‘We need a global financial system that’s fit for purpose to factor in climate risks and opportunities,’ said World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim. ‘Developing a green bond market is key to mobilizing the private capital flows needed to address climate change. We were delighted to collaborate with the Central Bank of Morocco on this important initiative.’ ‘Having become increasingly aware of the effects of climate change, at the COP 22 in Marrakesh, countries are now specifying how to achieve commitments made in Paris. Bank Al-Maghrib’s investment in World Bank Green Bonds has been made in that context. The investment will support sustainable development projects financed by the World Bank, including in countries in Africa,’ said Mr. Abdellatif Jouahri, Governor of Bank Al-Maghrib. The 3-year US$ 100 million bonds mature on December 15, 2019, and have a semi-annual fixed rate coupon payment. The sole lead manager is Credit Agricole CIB. ‘This investment sends a powerful message to the global investor and climate policy community about Morocco’s commitment to climate finance,’ said World Bank Vice President and Treasurer, Arunma Oteh. ‘Morocco is one of the countries that has benefitted from the World Bank’s green bond program to support its transition to a low carbon economy and is now making an investment in the global transition to a greener planet. The World Bank Treasury is grateful to have partnered with Bank Al-Maghrib at the time of the COP22 in Marrakech, for this transaction.’ Since the World Bank’s first green bond launched in 2008, the World Bank has issued 128 green bonds in 18 currencies, totaling approximately USD 9.7 billion equivalent. World Bank green bonds offer investors an opportunity to support environmental solutions through a bond product that benefits from the triple-A credit strength of the World Bank. World Bank green bonds support the financing of projects in member countries that meet specific criteria for low carbon and climate resilient growth, seeking to mitigate climate change or help affected people adapt to it. The types of eligible projects include renewable energy installations, energy efficiency projects, and new technologies in waste management and agriculture that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and help finance the transition to a low carbon economy. They also include financing for forest and watershed management and infrastructure to prevent climate-related flood damage and build climate resilience. For examples of projects supported by the World Bank Green Bond Program and other information, see: HYPERLINK . About the World Bank The World Bank (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, IBRD), rated Aaa/AAA (Moody’s/S&P), is an international organization created in 1944 and the original member of the World Bank Group. It operates as a global development cooperative owned by 188 nations. It provides its members with financing, expertise and coordination services so they can achieve equitable and sustainable economic growth in their national economies and find effective solutions to pressing regional and global economic and environmental problems. The World Bank has two main goals: to end extreme poverty and promote shared prosperity. It seeks to achieve them primarily by providing loans, risk management products, and expertise on development-related disciplines to its borrowing member government clients in middle-income countries and other creditworthy countries, and by coordinating responses to regional and global challenges. It has been issuing sustainable development bonds in the international capital markets for over 60 years to fund its activities that achieve a positive impact. Information for investors is available on the World Bank Treasury website: ( ~ HYPERLINK www.worldbank.org/debtsecurities Contacts: In Morocco: Ibtissam Alaoui, +
(212)-537-544-200, HYPERLINK ialaoui@worldbank.org In Washington: William Stebbins +1 (202) 458-8783, HYPERLINK mailto:wstebbins@worldbank.org wstebbins@worldbank.org For Broadcast Requests: Huma Imtiaz, +1 (202) 473-2409, HYPERLINK mailto:himtiaz@worldbank.org himtiaz@worldbank.org [Editorial queries for this
story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  2

 2 : COP24_UK97
The arrival of Europeans in the Americas left a trail of death in their wake thatalso triggered a period of , according to a new theory proposed by British scientists. A University College London team estimates that 55 million indigenous people died following the conquest of the Americas that began at the end of the 15th century. The majority of these deaths resulted from diseases brought to the new shores by the settlers, which are thought to have wiped out up to 90 per cent of the native population. In the years that followed, war, slavery and societal collapse exacerbated these problems, leaving much of the landmass devoid of people. Apart from the enormous scale of tragedy, this led to 56 million hectares of land previously set aside for farming being abandoned. As the land was rapidly reclaimed by trees and vegetation, the plant life sucked such an enormous amount of CO2 from the atmosphere that the Earth cooled. “There is a marked cooling around that time (1500s/1600s) which is called the Little Ice Age, and what’s interesting is that we can see natural processes giving a little bit of cooling,” co-author Professor Mark Maslin . “But actually to get the full cooling - double the natural processes - you have to have this genocide-generated drop in CO2.” Read more Trump ridiculed after pleading for global warming to ‘come back fast’ The so-called “Little Ice Age” was a period in European history noted for plummeting temperatures, when rivers across the continent, including the Thames, regularly froze over. According to Professor Maslin and his colleagues, support for a link between this period and the “great dying” of indigenous American peoples comes from Antarctica. Ice core records from the polar region contain air bubbles that reveal a drop in concentration of atmospheric CO2 around this time. Besides the sudden drop in human population, the scientists said the changes in climate also coincided with fluctuations in charcoal and pollen deposits collected from the Americas. Sir David Attenborough at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Katowice: Climate change ‘our greatest threat’ Humans began pushing global temperatures in the opposite direction when they began burning fossil fuels and pumping large quanities of CO2 into the atmosphere. If any lesson can be taken from their study for today’s efforts to tackle climate change, the researchers say it wasthe scale of changes needed to make a difference. They said the decline of America’s indigenous population meant an area roughly the size of France was reforested, sucking out CO2 roughly equivalent to just two years of fossil fuel emissions. Thefindings were published in the journal Quaternary Science Reviews .
  3

 3 : COP26_UK40
A number of primary pupils have been awarded certificates after taking part in the Rotary Club of Cambuslang’s COP26 Challenge. The organisation arranged the challenge for local primary schools during the autumn term. Youngsters who took part were all in P7 and came from several schools in the town, with Newton Farm, Park View, St Bride’s, St Charles’ and West Coasts all represented. The challenge was inspired by the COP26 conference held in Glasgow last year, with pupils asked to create prose, poetry and posters to show they care about the environment and the effects of global warming on the planet. Certificates were awarded to winners from each school for their creative and outstanding work. The certificates were presented in line with COVID protocols. Alison Thomson from the club toldLanarkshire Live: “We would like to thank Rotarian Tony Neeson who arranged the competition and co-ordinated with the schools, the teachers who encouraged their pupils to take part and most of all the pupils for the excellent work they produced.” Don’t miss the latest headlines from around Lanarkshire. Sign up to our newsletters. And did you know Lanarkshire Live is onFacebook? Head on over and give us a like and share! Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  4

 4 : COP25_UK16
Engie Energ&a Chile has signed a power purchase agreement with Chilean fishing company Corpesca to supply its operations in the country from renewable sources. Under the five-year PPA, Engie will supply 30GWh/year to Corpesca in the communes of Arica, in the Arica y Parinacota region, and Iquique, in the region of Tarapac&. Engie owns five renewable projects in the country. They are: The 150 MW Calama wind project, in the Antofagasta region The 97 MW Capricornio solar park, in Antofagasta The 120 MW (DC) Tamaya solar project, in Antofagasta The 54 MW Los Loros solar park in the province of Copiap& The 1.3 MW Andacollo solar facility, also in Copiap& Engie Energ&a Chile acquired the Los Loros and Andacollo solar projects from another affiliate of Engie, Solairedirect, in April 2019. The other three projects, Calama, Capricornio, and Tamaya, represent a total investment of $300 million.~ IDB Invest signed a letter of intent with the sponsor for a proposed $125 million loan for renewable energy projects in Chile in December, during the United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP 25 ) in Madrid.~ The company plans to build a 1GW portfolio of wind and solar assets in Chile. (A version of this stories first appeared on Power, Finance & Risk)
  5

 5 : COP23_UK257
June 2, 2017 BRUSSELS, Belgium – The European Union and the African Union reaffirm their strong commitment to full implementation of the Paris agreement, and call on all partners to keep up the momentum created in 2015. Ahead of the COP23 in November they pledge to work together to finalise the Paris Agreement work programme. Climate change and renewable energy will figure on the agenda of the upcoming Africa-EU Summit in Abidjan on 29/30 November. This will be an opportunity to confirm the strong solidarity with those most vulnerable to climate change and the determination to work together to build strong and sustainable economies and societies resilient to climate change. The European Union and the African Union reaffirm their commitment to continuing to address the adverse effects of climate change on human and animal health, natural ecosystems and other social and economic impacts that threaten our developmental gains as a global community. Distributed by APO on behalf of European Union Delegation to the African Union.
  6

 6 : COP24_UK10
A panel of energy experts have highlighted the important role nuclear energy has to play in combating climate change and have called on negotiators to enable all low carbon technologies to fulfil their full potential. Agneta Rising, Director General, World Nuclear Association said ‘The future decarbonization of the electricity sector is central to tackling climate change. We have the solutions, but we are lacking the decisions. Those decision makers here at COP24 have the most immediate goal to achieve, to ensure the Paris Agreement rulebook encourage and enables all low carbon technologies, including nuclear energy.’ Dr Fatih Birol, Executive Director, International Energy Agency (IEA) told the COP 24 delegates via video link that ‘We need a secure and sustainable energy supply and I believe nuclear has an important role to play.’ Cosmin Ghita, CEO, Nuclear Electrica spoke about Romania’s success in decarbonizing its generation mix using nuclear energy - ‘Romania’s energy mix should include clean sources, which nuclear delivers on. We don’t see our targets being achieved without the use of nuclear power’. Delegates were also told of Poland’s plans to make greater use of nuclear energy. ‘Poland’s first power plant will be built by 2033 with five more by 2043. Nuclear power will be the main tool for energy supply.’ said Dr Jozef Sobolewski, on behalf of Polish Minister of Energy Krzysztof Tchorzewski. These comments were made at an event on the new Clean Energy Ministerial (CEM) NICE Future initiative, which looks at how nuclear and renewables can be combined to enable both forms of technologies. Dr. Jill Engel-Cox, NICE Future Operating Agent, Program Director, U.S. National Renewable Energy Laboratory said that ‘Together, nuclear and renewable energy could reduce emissions of carbon and help meet this century’s global low-emission energy goals’ Sarah Lennon, Associate Deputy Assistant Secretary, Office of Nuclear Energy, U.S. Department of Energy said that ‘The NICE Future initiative puts nuclear at the heart of the discussions about a clean energy future.’ Notes To Editors World Nuclear Association is the international organisation that represents the global nuclear industry. Its mission is to promote a wider understanding of nuclear energy among key international influencers by producing authoritative information, developing common industry positions, and contributing to the energy debate, as well as to pave the way for expanding nuclear business. Contact: Jonathan Cobb Tel: +44 20 7451 1536 Email: HYPERLINK press@world-nuclear.org [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  7

 7 : COP23_UK237
World Meteorological Organization’s (WMO) Greenhouse Gas Bulletin detailing concentrations of long-lived greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide in the atmosphere in 2016. Press conference with WMO Secretary-General Petteri Taalas. The report aims to inform decision-makers at the U.N. Climate Change Conference in Bonn ( COP23 , 6-17 Nov 2017) Event Start Date: 2017-10-30 Event End Date: 2017-10-30 Event URL: Event time: 11:00 CET
  8

 8 : COP24_UK295
LONDON (ICIS)–If chemical producers believe they can continue to benefit from above-GDP rates of demand growth, how seriously do they expect to contribute to greenhouse gas emissions reduction? Increasing pressure to tackle carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gas emissions will weigh heavily on petrochemicals producers in many parts of the world, while advancing climate change presents a clear challenge to growth. It is technically feasible to halt global warming at 1.5C, a special[1] report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC) has suggested, but the goal requires direct action from governments and steep cuts in emissions. How that might be achieved in a period of global expansion with more people living in cities, travelling and consuming is the challenge of the age. Chemical producers have to innovate on many fronts to deliver the materials that effect emissions reductions. They also have to work to curb their own emissions and introduce processes that release less carbon and consume less power or use power that is sourced from renewables. Marrying the two is seen by many businesses as vitally important if carbon emissions are to be curtailed and if we are to avoid the predicted temperature increases and disruption that are expected to accompany climate change The International Energy Agency (IEA) this week has highlighted the importance of carbon capture use and storage (CCUS), a series of technologies that have not seriously found their mark, in tackling climate change. Without CCUS as part of the solution, reaching our international climate goals is practically impossible, said the IEA s exeutive director, Fatih Birol, ahead of a recent conference. The IEA was promoting its [2]CCUS campaign ahead of the COP24 series of meetings and ahead of its own meeting of (energy) ministers in 2019. New business models are showing that CCUS is increasingly cost-competitive across a range of sectors, says the IEA. In one of its energy scenarios, which looks at how climate goals might be met while tackling air pollution while ensuring universal energy access, almost all new investments would have either to be zero carbon, offset by retiring other emitting facilities or would need new technology like CCUS or hydrogen. The IEA estimates that more than 450m tonnes of CO2 emissions could be captured for use or storage each year with an incentive equivalent of less than $40/tonne of CO2. Increased investment and deployment of CCUS, especially where there are opportunities to act at low cost, could help trigger further cost reductions, it adds. Ahead of a CCUS [3]conference last month, it said that there is no other cost-effective technology solution capable of delivering the deep emissions reductions needed across key industrial processes such as steel, cement and chemicals manufacturing, oil and gas production all of which will remain vital building blocks of modern society . CCUS is also the only technology that can reduce emissions from coal-fired power generation, which has continued to increase despite the push towards renewables. Carbon capture and storage, or reduction, technologies may not be new, or fashionable, but they are likely to prove essential in tackling emissions from large, energy intensive and CO2 emitting facilities. They will become increasingly cost-effective as the cost of carbon rises. They will not be used in place of the shift towards renewables, greater resource efficiency and the upgrading of production assets with the retiring of older facilities. But the IEA has stressed that they are probably the only way to assure energy security and tackle emissions from new coal-fired power plants in some parts of the world and of maintaining output from existing energy-intensive production plants and industries such as steel. By Nigel Davis References 1. HYPERLINK 2. ~ HYPERLINK 3. ~ HYPERLINK
  9

 9 : COP21_UK304
BHP Billiton will contribute C$4 million per year for five years to fund the Knowledge Centre, which will operate as a Not-For-Profit Canadian Corporation in Regina, Saskatchewan. BHP Billiton Chief Commercial Officer, Dean Dalla Valle, said accelerating the development and deployment of low-emissions technologies was vital in addressing the challenges posed by climate change. “By enhancing global access to the data, information and lessons learned from SaskPower’s unique Boundary Dam facility - the first power project to successfully integrate CCS - we aim to stimulate broader deployment of the technology,” Mr Dalla Valle said. SaskPower President and CEO Mike Marsh said he was pleased to be able to partner with BHP Billiton through the Knowledge Centre. “Talks between our two companies began at a United Nations climate change conference
  10

 10 : COP25_UK322
The UK Government has added its voice to the widespread disappointment over the United Nations discussions on the climate crisis which ended in compromise and frustration. Lengthy talks in Madrid ended on Sunday with polluters resisting calls to increase efforts to minimise global heating and negotiators delaying debate about rules for international carbon markets for another year. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said he was disappointed'' by the final declaration, which cited anurgent need” to cut greenhouses gases in line with the 2015 Paris Agreement. But the outcome fell short of explicitly demanding countries to propose bolder emissions plans next year, in accordance with environmentalists and developing countries’ demands. The UK thanked Chile’s efforts in the Cop25 talks but expressed its frustration at the result. Tackling climate change is one of the most urgent issues we face and we are extremely grateful for the tireless efforts of the Chilean Cop presidency to reach an agreement, in challenging circumstances in Madrid,'' a UK Government spokesman said.It is disappointing talks did not move as far or as fast at the UK had hoped.
“There is still much more to do and we are determined to increase the momentum and drive even more ambitious climate action at next year’s talks in Glasgow.”
  11

 11 : COP21_UK81
In the weeks leading up to the United Nations climate change conference ( COP21 ), which begins in Paris on Monday and aims to reach a new universal climate agreement, many of the Organization’s agencies and programmes announced their latest climate-related findings, bringing to light new data, major concerns, and underlining existing and potential opportunities to preserve the planet. The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) reported that the amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere reached yet another new record high in 2014, continuing a
“relentless rise” which is fueling climate change and will make the planet more dangerous and inhospitable for future generations. Just days later, the agency shared more “bad news for the planet,” warning that 2015 is likely to be the warmest year on record, breaching the symbolic and significant milestone of 1 degree Celsius above the pre-industrial era. In addition, data from the UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR) revealed that over the last 20 years, 90 per cent of major disasters have been caused by 6,457 recorded floods, storms, heatwaves, droughts and other weather-related events. Echoing this message was the UN Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO), which underlined that natural disasters triggered by climate change have risen in frequency and severity over the last three decades, increasing the damage caused to the agricultural sectors of many developing countries and putting them at risk of growing food insecurity. The World Food Programme (WFP) further insisted that without “ambitious action” to address the causes and consequences of climate change, hunger cannot be eradicated. During the global gathering in Paris, the agency will launch its Food Security Climate Resilience (FoodSECuRE) Facility, a new tool that will help respond to climate disasters before they occur based on climate forecasts. Ahead of COP21 , the World Bank said “climate-smart” development can keep 100 million people out of poverty. According to the Bank’s latest findings, the poorest people are more exposed than the average population to climate-related shocks, and they lose much more of their wealth when they are hit. Noting the significant impact climatic activities have on African people and countries, the Bank also unveiled a $ 16 billion business plan to boost the continent’s climate resilience, outlining actions required to maintain and protect its growth and poverty reduction goals. Raising awareness on groups most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) said youngsters will bear the brunt. More than half a billion children reportedly live in areas with extremely high flood occurrence and 160 million in high drought severity zones, leaving them highly exposed. Recalling that indigenous peoples own, occupy or manage up to 65 per cent of the Earth’s land surface - and that their voices must be heard in Paris - the UN Development Programme (UNDP) expressed significant concern regarding the exclusion of their issues from national plans to combat climate change. Formally called Intended Nationally Determined Contributions, or INDCs, these will form the basis of the agreement expected to be reached at COP21 . Meanwhile, the important role that nuclear power could play in reducing greenhouse gas emissions was the focus of a new report released by the UN International Atomic Energy (IAEA). It highlighted that nuclear power is one of the major low-carbon energy sources currently available, and many countries believe that it can help them to address the twin challenges of ensuring reliable energy supplies while curbing emissions. From the UN entity organizing the conference - the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) - came a set of best practice climate policies from across the world. ‘Climate Action Now’ was introduced in Bonn, Germany, as a solutions guide, revealing a “wealth of existing opportunities” to immediately scale up reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. Finally, according to a report released by the UN Environment Programme (UNEP), the implementation of the national target plans will limit greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, but a new climate agreement can encourage further action that will be necessary to limit global temperature rise to 2 degree Celsius by 2100. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  12

 12 : COP26_UK299
THE COP26 climate summit is due to end today, with negotiators scrambling to salvage a significant deal on reducing global carbon emissions. Cop26 president Alok Sharma yesterday warned “time is running out” in Glasgow for the 180 countries at the summit to agree to a deal. While the summit will officially end today, Boris Johnson indicated negotiations could stretch into the weekend as happened in previous years. China and the US, the globe’s two largest CO2 emitters, on Wednesday agreed to team up to phase out fossil fuels in an unexpected deal. Pundits have said the deal provides hope that China could come to the table and agree to a deal to strengthen commitments made in the 2015 Paris Climate Accord. Sharma said proposals over reducing fossil fuel subsidies and accelerating reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are still crucial stumbling blocks. “Whilst we have made progress we are not there yet on the most critical issues. There is still a lot more work to be done - time is running out,” he said. “As I speak my ministerial facilitators and negotiators are rolling up their sleeves and working hard to find solutions to some of the most intractable issues.” The draft text of the Cop26 deal notes “with serious concern” that existing global agreements are insufficient to keep global warming to 1.5 degrees. The draft, which sets out what negotiators hope will be the outcome of Cop26 , asks countries to “revisit and strengthen the 2030 targets in their nationally determined contributions, as necessary to align with the Paris Agreement temperature goal by the end of 2022”. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  13

 13 : COP21_UK40
Taipei, Taiwan - Delta announced that it joined the ‘Road to Paris’ initiative by the Carbon Disclosure Project and has committed to a 30% reduction in its electricity intensity by the year 2020, which follows a 50% reduction already achieved by the company over the past five years. Delta Electronics will actively participate in a series of events that reflect its commitment to sustainability during the upcoming COP21 . Delta will present its 21 green buildings, which it has constructed over the past 10 years, at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. In addition, Delta will organize a side event, which has been approved by the United Nations COP21 General Secretariat, to share its knowledge and achievements in energy savings and the construction of green buildings. Mr. Ping Cheng, chief executive officer of Delta Electronics, emphasized, ‘Delta has a long-term commitment to sustainability. From 2010 to 2014, we successfully reduced our electricity intensity (electricity use per product value) by 50% compared to 2009 and in the past 10 years we have constructed 21 green buildings. Delta is now enhancing our commitment by engaging in the CDP’s Road to Paris initiative and promising a further 30% reduction in electricity intensity by 2020, and we are expanding our commitment to the whole group.’ Ms. Shan-Shan Guo, chief brand officer of Delta Electronics and executive director of Delta Electronics Foundation, said, ‘Delta is honored to have received permission by the UN COP21 General Secretariat to organize a side event at the Climate Generations areas during COP21 . After 10 years of implementing green buildings, we wish to share our experience by organizing a side event and hosting the ’Delta 21 Green Buildings at COP21 Exhibition’ at the Grand Palais, and show the world the efforts of a corporation that is deeply committed to sustainability.’ Since 2007, the Delta Electronics Foundation has attended the UN Climate Change Conferences annually, and in 2014, it hosted a side event in which Delta introduced their experience on rebuilding the Namasia Elementary School. Over the years, Delta’s efforts to reduce carbon emissions have been recognized by international organizations such as the CDP, which selected Delta for its Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) in 2014-the only company chosen from the Greater China region. For the past five consecutive years, Delta has also been a member of the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) World Index and was a leader in the ICT Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Components in 2015. 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP21 ) will be the most important climate change conference in the past 10 years. We expect the participating countries to reach an agreement to reduce carbon emissions. During COP21 , Delta will use its advanced ‘edge-blending’ projection capabilities to exhibit its entire portfolio of green buildings inside the Grand Palais in Paris, France. The Delta Electronics Foundation will also organize a side event to share Delta’s contributions on green buildings and carbon footprint reduction. Contact: Delta Group 186, Ruey Kuang Road Neihu, Taipei 11491 Taiwan, R.O.C Tel: +886-2-8797-2088 Email: HYPERLINK mailto:news@delta.com.tw news@delta.com.tw [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  14

 14 : COP25_UK303
Sir, Further to your leading article (“Cop Out”, Dec 16), the strained outcome of the Madrid COP25 climate meeting underlines the huge hurdles facing the UK in hosting the next. One of the most positive features last week was the EU (Poland aside) adopting the goal to reach net zero emissions by 2050, like the UK. Our prime minister has committed himself to a huge expansion of offshore wind, which will require deep involvement with the European energy market in particular to sell surplus electricity, and potentially to manage fluctuating gas demand given the closure of UK gas storage: we cannot build pipes or power cables to the US or China to offset any reduced energy trade with the EU. The COP we will host in Glasgow next November, in partnership with Italy, will revolve around national long-term strategies and increasing the ambition of the existing inadequate pledges from around the world. In Madrid, the EU, with the UK fully integrated, was a driving force for enhanced ambition, as one of the three major global centres of power. After Brexit, and in the trade negotiations to follow, a priority must be to maintain the UK as a central player in both EU energy markets, and in the diplomatic weight of European energy-climate policy. Michael Grubb Professor of energy and climate change; research director, UCL Institute for Sustainable Resources
  15

 15 : COP24_UK54
STUDENTS at Monmouth School for Girls participated in a global protest against climate change on Friday (February 15). Inspired by 16-year-old climate activist Greta Thunberg - whose speeches at the World Economic
Forum and the 2018 United Nations Climate Change Conference made international headlines - around 60 Monmouth pupils called on the government to declare a climate emergency and take active steps to tackle the problems associated with climate change. The Eco Committee, actively supported by the school, co-ordinated the rally during the lunch break. Some pupils carried home-made placards to get their message across. Across the country, thousands of young people took part in the Youth Strike 4 Climate protest to highlight how much they care about the world and their future. And at Haberdashers’ Monmouth Schools, hundreds of children and staff are working together to cut the amount of plastic they use. Schemes include the introduction of refillable water bottles and new packed lunches for sporting fixtures. Together with ‘eco-assemblies’ and competitions, such schemes have increased awareness among the schools’ community. Monmouth School for Girls and Monmouth School Girls’ Prep have supported the town of Monmouth in achieving Surfers Against Sewage Plastic Free Town status. Nick Meek, head of geography and Eco Committee co-ordinator at Monmouth School for Girls, will receive a certificate at a plastic-free celebration, organised by the Plastic Free Monmouth Steering Group, on February 22.
  16

 16 : COP23_UK7
November 8, 2017 United Nation’s (UN) annual climate conference (COP) started in Bonn, Germany on Monday. The conference will be attended by more than 20,000 delegates. Fortum participates both in the conference and Sustainable Innovation Forum 2017 - the largest side event organised by Climate Action and UN Environment. Kari Kankaanp’e4’e4, Fortum’s Senior Manager, Climate Affairs, will be joining the delegation of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) during the second week of the COP23 . “Fortum is strongly committed to climate change mitigation and actions towards a cleaner world. As a leading clean-energy company we want to be involved in COP where policy makers, regulators, commerce and industry and civil society meet. We see the conference as an excellent opportunity to take part in the discussion on global climate and energy policy,” says Kari Kankaanp’e4’e4. Fortum one of the main partners of the Sustainable Innovation Forum 2017 Sustainable Innovation Forum (SIF) will take place in Bonn on 13 - 14 November. SIF is the largest business-focused side event during COP23 and is expected to gather together over 600 participants. Pekka Lundmark, Fortum’s President and CEO, will be joining the opening panel of the Forum on Accelerating the Energy Transition on 13 November, together with representatives of Siemens, Orsted and ministers from Norway and Scotland. In addition, Fortum has an exhibition stand in SIF showcasing the clean energy solutions, presenting Fortum’s climate and energy policy messages and offering an opportunity to network with the experts. “The recent reports on climate change by the scientific community are alarming and show the urgency of measures needed to combat climate change. We need to speed up the transition to a low-carbon electricity system, to improve the resource efficiency and to promote the circular economy. The three most important challenges for all energy producers at the moment are decarbonisation, security of supply and affordability,” says Pekka Lundmark. Read more: Follow discussions in Twitter: # COP23 and #SIF17 The COP is the supreme decision-making body of the Climate Convention. All states that are parties to the Convention are represented at the COP. In addition to governments, a large number of businesses, NGOs, cities and other stakeholders participate in the conference. COP23 is focusing on the development of the implementation rules of the Paris Agreement signed in 2015.
  17

 17 : COP24_UK185
Considering the icy temperatures gripping central Europe, it’s remarkable how much hot air was able to circulate in the small town of Davos at over 5,000 feet this week. As per usual, the annual WEF gathering of politicians, business leaders, celebrities and the global media delivered a healthy portion of pomp and splendour. Brexit-weary journalist friends who managed to get their hands on a coveted accreditation shared selfies with Bill Gates, a hastily snapped picture of a star-struck Prince William as he prepared to face David Attenborough, and a shaky video of Wycliffe Jean serenading a dinner crowd. The philanthropic (and not so philanthropic) regulars donned their Monclers and rocked up in force - Bono, Al Gore, Matt Damon, George Soros, and Sting, to name but a random few - but when the supposed leaders of the free world got down to the noble business of actually safeguarding our future under the grand theme of “Globalization 4.0”, it all got a bit uncomfortable. The Wall Street Journal’s Greg Ip summarised it neatly when he said that Davos’s raison d’etre is to gather intelligence and collectively conjure up solutions to the world’s most pressing problems. “Hedge funds go to chat up CEOs, CEOs go to chat up politicians, politicians go to chat up donors, and journalists go to chat up everyone,” Ip explained in a recent piece, sketching out the weird ecosystem of largely well-heeled attendees. But 2019’s crippling malaise turns out to be utter cluelessness, making Davos’s mission basically unachievable this year. Anyone know how the US government shutdown will finally end, how Brexit will pan out, whether US-China trade tensions will defuse, or whether robots will indeed take all of our jobs? No, nein, non and nyet. But everyone’s perfected the art of the sober nod and everyone is eager to express their ironclad commitment to making the world a better place. They just haven’t quite got around to figuring out how to do that. And so it was with some relief that I learned of at least one sensible voice among the fat cats in the snow. The figurative adult in the room just happens to be a Swedish teenager. Greta Thunberg is no stranger to the public eye. Last year she led a massive school strike to raise awareness of climate change outside the Swedish parliament. She’s done a TED talk and addressed the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Poland last year at the tender age of 15. On Thursday in Davos, unintimidated by the magnitude of her fellow panellists (Bono, diplomat Christiane Figueres, Jane Goodall, will.i.am and Japanese businessman Kengo Sakurada), Thunberg - who also happens to be autistic - took the floor and fearlessly accused some of the planet’s richest and most influential people of imperilling her future while looking them dead in the eye. “Some people say that the climate crisis is something that we will have created, but that is not true, because if everyone is guilty then no one is to blame. And someone is to blame,” she said in a stoic, steady voice, as heavyweights like former Goldman Sachs president Gary Cohn and Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff looked on. “Some people, some companies, some decision-makers in particular, have known exactly what priceless values they have been sacrificing to continue making unimaginable amounts of money,” she added in flawless English with a charming Scandinavian lilt, before going in for the kill: “And I think many of you here today belong to that group of people.” A short, excruciating pause ensued before a flutter of guilty laughter filled the room and then eventually (thank God!) wordless applause. Many in the audience no doubt wished they were anywhere - anywhere! - but here. Legitimately or not, millennials have earned a reputation for being feckless snowflakes, but I dare anyone to fob off Generation Zers like Thunberg as equally gritless. The 16-year old and her peers have the most to lose from the reckless way in which we’re mistreating the planet, so perhaps it will take her and her contemporaries’ passion and courage to inspire change. Call it youthful ignorance if you will. I’ll call it necessity. Events like the WEF need more Thunbergs. Despite a push by organisers for change, women this year represented just 22 per cent of delegates and the average age was well over 50. Just as homogeneity breeds homogeneity, diversity breeds diversity. In a sea of still predominantly white men, the fresh-faced Swede, with long braids frequently tucked under a woolly hat, has already achieved what scores of campaigners will spend a lifetime trying to do. She’s been heard and hopefully her words will haunt the elite for a while. Hot air might make snowflakes melt but Thunberg has shown us that Generation Zers have other plans.
  18

 18 : COP22_UK100
THE United Nations came to Cardiff last week when students from across Wales took part in a mock United Nations conference on climate change. Students from across the country joined the debate and represented countries such as Brazil, USA, the Philippines and Saudi Arabia. The conference, run annually by Size of Wales in partnership with Welsh Centre for International Affairs, gives young people an opportunity to discuss the issue of climate change from the perspective of world leaders. Topics discussed ranged from clean energy, protecting rainforests, disaster management and how to finance these. “The conference encourages young people to be more engaged with climate change and political issues” said Janie Pridham, education officer at Size of Wales. “It also helps them develop understanding of other nations and cultures and to consider the responsibility of Wales, both locally and globally.” She added: “The standard of debate was extremely high this year.”It was wonderful to see the students take on their roles in such a realistic way. “Some delegates were quoting Trump and there was even a smear campaign between countries.” The aim of the day was for delegates to agree an international resolution on the issue of climate change, similar to the UN climate change COP22 talks that were held in Marrakesh in November. This year Sophie Howe, the Future Generations Commissioner, joined the event, acting as the secretary general and presiding over teams of three pupils representing 20 countries and organisations. “The bright, engaged young people I met today not only understand the critical point we have reached in terms of tackling climate change but understand that it is they who will be experiencing the positive or negative impact of our actions today.” the Commissioner said. “If we continue to give them a voice and an opportunity to influence, it gives me hope that there is a better future for everyone in Wales and that we will be a nation that makes a positive contribution to global wellbeing.” Size of Wales is a unique initiative which is helping to protect an area of rainforest twice the size of Wales as part of a national response to climate change. MOCKCOP is a highlight in its education programme, which also offers free workshops and assemblies to schools across Wales. The event was sponsored by Jenny Rathbone AM.
  19

 19 : COP25_UK219
Buckingham Palace 13th February, 2020 His Excellency Mr Abderrahmane Benguerrah was received in audience by The Queen today and presented the Letters of Recall of his predecessor and his own Letters of Credence as Ambassador from the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria to the Court of St James’s. Mrs Benguerrah was also received by Her Majesty. Mrs Kelina was also received by Her Majesty. Sir Simon McDonald (Permanent Under-Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs) was present. Lieutenant-General Sir Andrew Gregory (Master Gunner, St James’s Park) was received by The Queen. Clarence House 13th February, 2020 The Prince of Wales and The Duchess of Cornwall this morning visited HM Tower of London to mark the 535th Anniversary of the creation of the Yeoman Warders. Their Royal Highnesses subsequently attended a Reception at HM Tower of London to mark the 50th Anniversary of VisitBritain. The Prince of Wales and The Duchess of Cornwall this afternoon visited the Cabinet Office, 70 Whitehall, London SW1, and were received by Her Majesty’s Lord-Lieutenant of Greater London (Sir Kenneth Olisa). The Prince of Wales, President, The Prince’s Group, later held a Meeting at Clarence House. His Royal Highness afterwards received Mr Peter Hill (Chief Executive Officer, 2020 United Nations Climate Change Conference ). The Prince of Wales, President, The Prince’s Trust, this evening attended the “Invest-in-Futures” Reception at Kensington Palace. St James’s Palace 13th February, 2020 The Earl of Wessex, Royal Colonel, 2nd Battalion The Rifles, this morning attended the Army Foundation College Graduation Parade at Uniacke Barracks, Penny Pot Lane, Killinghall, Harrogate, North Yorkshire. The Countess of Wessex this evening departed from Heathrow Airport, London, for Germany and was received later upon arrival at Munich International Airport by Her Majesty’s Consul-General for Munich (Mr Simon Kendall). St James’s Palace 13th February, 2020 The Princess Royal, Fourth Warden, the Fishmongers’ Company, this morning attended a Committee of Wardens Meeting, Court Meeting and Luncheon at Fishmongers’ Hall, London Bridge, London EC4. Kensington Palace 13th February, 2020 The Duke of Gloucester, Joint Patron, Thames Landscape Strategy, this afternoon received Mr Jason Debney (Co-ordinator). His Royal Highness, Patron, British Mexican Society, this evening attended a Lecture at King’s College London, Strand, London WC2. The Duchess of Gloucester, Honorary President, the Lawn Tennis Association, this morning received Mr David Rawlinson (President) and Mr Scott Lloyd (Chief Executive Officer). St James’s Palace 13th February, 2020 The Duke of Kent, Royal Patron, the Dresden Trust, this afternoon departed from Royal Air Force Northolt for Germany in order to attend ceremonies marking the 75th Anniversary of the destruction of Dresden. His Royal Highness later attended a Reception given by the Mayor of Dresden at the City Hall, also attended by The President of the Federal Republic of Germany. The Duke of Kent afterwards attended a Ceremony of Commemoration in the Kulturpalast Dresden, and subsequently attended an Organ Recital in the Frauenkirche. His Royal Highness this evening took part in a human chain Ceremony of Commemoration on Neumarkt Square. The Duke of Kent later arrived at Royal Air Force Northolt from Germany. Mr Nicholas Turnbull was in attendance. St James’s Palace 13th February, 2020 Princess Alexandra this afternoon visited St Mary’s Hospice, Raddlebarn Road, Birmingham, on the occasion of their 40th Anniversary and was received by Mr Douglas Wright (Deputy Lieutenant of West Midlands).
  20

 20 : COP23_UK173
UK: Theresa May holds a cross-party meeting to discuss claims of sexual abuse and harassment in British politics; Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader, speaks at the CBI annual conference in London. Germany: The United Nations climate change conference opens in Bonn.
  21

 21 : COP25_UK21
December 10, 2019 “Science is unequivocal on the urgency to act, both at global and national levels”, he told the conference to address the climate crisis - officially known as the 25th Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The official opening ceremony of the high-level segment of the 25th Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, known as COP 25 . (10 December 2019), by UN Climate Change/James Dowson Mr. Muhammad-Bande recalled the consensus reached through the Paris Agreement to limit the rise in temperature to 2’baC above pre-industrial levels and efforts to hold it to 1.5’baC. And yet, if current trends in global emissions continue, they will cause further warming; and humans will face increasingly severe and extreme weather events. “Lands are being degraded. Forests, ecosystems and biodiversity are being lost. Our oceans are facing pollution, acidification and loss of coastal habitats”, he spelled out. Recurrent climate disasters are becoming global and borderless; causing unprecedented human and socioeconomic costs; and threatening progress in reducing global poverty and improving people’s lives. Let’s not ‘go down with the ship’ Risk reduction measures have the potential to “safeguard up to 280 million people at risk of displacement due to sea level rise”. “It is our decision: to go down with this ship or to change course immediately”, he underscored.
“This is the time to act”. “We are defined by our actions, and every day we have a moral obligation to take action in favour of the next generation and beyond”, Mr. Muhammad-Bande concluded. “I am confident we will rise to this challenge”. Nuclear energy solutions On his first official trip as the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Rafael Mariano Grossi highlighted the role that nuclear power can play in the global transition to clean energy. “Variable renewables, such as solar and wind, are vital to the clean energy transition, but they alone cannot meet countries’ growing energy needs”, he maintained, adding that nuclear energy can “provide the continuous, low-carbon power to back up increasing use of renewables”. Moreover, nuclear power can be “the key that unlocks their full potential by providing flexible support - day or night, rain or shine”, upheld the IAEA chief. And many States believe that it will be very difficult, if not impossible, to achieve sustainable development and meet global climate goals without significant use of nuclear energy. He pointed out that “nuclear power provides around one-third of the world’s low-carbon electricity and already plays a significant role in mitigating climate change”. Out of time “Each year at COP we are told that the window of opportunity could close soon”, UN Climate Change Executive Secretary Patricia Espinosa said on the urgency of climate action. “The window of opportunity is closing now,” she warned. “My message is this. We need your decisions. We need your leadership. We are out of time.” Action for the most vulnerable People around the world are being affected by one extreme weather event after another. But refugees, stateless people, and internally displaced often reside in climate change “hotspots”, leaving them exposed to secondary displacements, according to the UN refugee agency, UNHCR. So Tuesday saw the timely launch by 12 international organizations of the Alliance for Hydromet Development, agreeing to strengthen the capacity of developing countries to deliver high-quality weather forecasts, early warning systems and hydrological and climate services. The window of opportunity is closing now - UN Climate Change chief Pointing out that “the science is clear”, World Meteorological Organization (WMO) Secretary-General Petteri Taalas, told COP25 that
“ambitious climate action requires countries to be equipped with the most reliable warnings and best available climate information services”. “The Alliance is the vehicle to collectively scale-up our support to the most vulnerable”, he concluded. For her part, World Bank Vice President for Sustainable Development Laura Tuck underlined the important role of the Alliance. “It’s good to see everyone formally coming together through this Alliance and committing to bridge the gap between developed and developing countries in the provision of hydromet and early warning services,” she said. “This will help ensure we are coherent, consistent, and efficient in the way we are supporting countries to prepare for climate risks and protect people.” COP25 will lay the groundwork for next year’s defining climate change conference, when countries must submit new climate action plans under the Paris Agreement.
  22

 22 : COP22_UK111
Text of report by leading Brazilian daily Folha de Sao Paulo website on 17 November On Wednesday (16) Brazil launched an initiative to try once again to promote biofuels. The announcement, made at the UN Climate Conference ( COP22 ), has 20 signatory countries and took place after two months of consultations with nations that would be interested in expanding investments in fuel production from biomass (such as sugar cane for the production of ethanol and soybeans for biodiesel). The solution is still received with concern by environmentalists and by countries that have chosen not to join the platform, such as Germany. On Tuesday (15), Barbara Hendricks, president of the Environment Committee of the German parliament, met at the COP22 with Brazilian ministers Blairo Maggi (Agriculture) and Sarney Filho (Environment) to hear about the Biofuturo platform proposal. According to what Folha found out from the Brazilian representatives, the conversation ended in a total disagreement. Germany - which takes the lead in solar energy investments and is shutting down its coal-run power plants - would not commit to energy sources that threaten food security. Since 2008, the biofuels debate has been marked by the controversy over the competition to use land for food production. At that time, Brazil was already recognized as a privileged country because it was able to produce biofuel on a large scale without undermining the prospects of food production - thanks to sugarcane and to the amount of land it has for agriculture. Now, instead of trying to put Brazil in the position of ethanol supplier to the world, the country wants to encourage others to produce biofuels, which would increase investments and create a market in which Brazil would take the lead. For international NGOs, producing biofuels to replace fossil fuels is still controversial. Last week, the European Union received from the NGOs at COP22 the “Fossil of the Day” trophy due to the biofuel plans announced by the bloc. In the Brazilian proposal, what would allow other countries to produce energy from biomass would be the so-called second-generation biofuel: a technology that allows production from crop residues, taking advantage of parts of production that would have been discarded in the past. Today, Brazil has the potential to produce five billion litres of second-generation biofuels annually (and 30bn “conventional” litres). To meet the goal of the Paris Agreement, the country needs to reach 50bn litres, raising the share of ethanol to 18 per cent in the composition of the energy grid. Arguing that the transport sector, one of the sectors that produces the most gas emissions, needs immediate solutions for the energy transition; the government seems to ignore a trend already in progress: that of electric cars.
“They already have an established technology and it is a matter of time for the price to become competitive in the market,” says Tasso Azevedo, coordinator of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Estimate System of the Climate Observatory. According to him, today there already are one million electric cars circulating around the world and countries plan to electrify their entire fleet - Germany, for example, wants to eliminate the combustion engine by 2040. For Tasso, the trend is clear when one compares the transition to the flex engine (which allows alcohol and gasoline) in Brazil. “In a decade, the flex fleet has gone from zero to represent 65 per cent of the country’s fleet,” says Tasso, estimating that in 15 years the same should happen with electric cars. On the other hand, a transportation sector that still does not have a low carbon solution is that of the civil aviation. The Ministry of Mines and Energy in 2017 is due to submit a plan to encourage the development of biodiesel for aircraft. The challenge is still the price, up to 30 per cent more expensive than conventional fuel. Source: Folha de Sao Paulo website ( HYPERLINK www.folha.com.br ) in Portuguese 0000 gmt 17 Nov 16
  23

 23 : COP23_UK171
One year after the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on climate change, the Bonn Conference, which opens on 6 November in Germany, will be an opportunity for nations around the world to show their ambition for climate action and their determination to keep their promises. “While Paris represented one of those moments where the best of humanity achieved an agreement so important to our collective futures, Bonn represents how we will move forward to fulfill its promise”, said the Executive Secretary of United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Patricia Espinosa, on the margins of a ministerial meeting in Fiji on 17 October 2017 to prepare for the Bonn Conference of the Convention’s States Parties. “We are running out of time to turn things around. To do so, we must significantly increase our efforts to reduce emissions and our carbon footprints,” she added. The Paris Agreement, which was adopted by the 196 Parties to the UNFCCC in December 2015 in the French capital after which it is named, calls on countries to combat climate change by limiting the rise of global temperature below 2 degrees Celsius and strive not to exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius. A year ago, the Marrakech Climate Conference concluded with the Marrakech Action Proclamation, for our climate and sustainable development, in which the UNFCCC States Parties affirmed their “commitment” to the “full implementation” of the Paris Agreement. Today, 169 Parties have ratified the Agreement. At the Bonn Conference, informally known as COP 23 , countries will seek to move forward in completing the rule book for operationalizing the Paris Agreement. The Conference, which runs until 17 November, is chaired by Fiji, an island State particularly affected by the impacts of climate change. “Never has our work been more necessary. We see this with respect to the extreme weather events affecting almost every continent throughout the world,” said Ms. Espinosa. COP 23 President and Fiji Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama agrees. “We can no longer ignore this crisis. Whether it is fires in California, Portugal and Spain. Flooding in Nigeria, India and Bangladesh. The dramatic Arctic melt. Ice breaking off the continent of Antarctica. The recent hurricanes that devastated the Caribbean and the southern United States [. . . ] It’s hard to find any part of the world that is unaffected by these events”, he said at the ministerial meeting in Fiji. Bonn Conference an opportunity to boost climate risk management efforts In an op-ed published in October 2017, Ms. Espinosa, alongside the Administrator of the UN Development Programme (UNDP), Achim Steiner, and the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Disaster Risk Reduction, Robert Glasser, said the Bonn Conference “provides an opportunity to not only accelerate emission reductions but also boost the serious work of ensuring that the management of climate risk is integrated into disaster risk management as a whole.” A week before the opening of the Bonn Conference, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) announced that the levels of carbon dioxide (C02) surged at
“record-breaking speed” to new highs in 2016. The Bonn Conference will feature a series of meetings and events, including the high-level segment, on 15 November and 16 November, attended by Heads of State and Government, Ministers, and UN Secretary-General Ant’f3nio Guterres. Mr. Guterres has invited leaders to consider championing six high-impact areas at a special Climate Summit in 2019. These areas are investment in clean technology, maturing carbon pricing, enabling the energy transition, risk mitigation and building resilience, augmenting the contribution of sub-national actors and business and mobilizing climate finance. “Increasing ambition is the only way to keep the global temperature rise well below 2 degrees Celsius this century, and as close to 1.5 degree as possible. By focusing on these sectors, we can substantially reduce the gap between where we are and where we need to be,” said UN Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed, at the pre-COP meeting in Fiji. Among the side events scheduled at COP 23 , several will be organized under the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action to show how cities, regions, private sector companies and investors are trying to implement the Paris Agreement in the areas of energy, water, agriculture, oceans and coastal areas, human settlements, transportation, industry, and forests. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  24

 24 : COP23_UK79
A POPULAR holiday destination for Britons could be gone by the end of the century as it continues to sink due to rising sea levels, as world leaders are called to act at the COP23 conference. Getty The Maldives is rapidly sinking and could be gone in the next 80 years The Pacific Islands contain some of the famous idyllic holiday destinations chosen by Britons for sun and luxury,~ With sea levels rising dramatically in the past few decades, the islands will suffer the most as they eventually become entirely submerged. Tuvalu could be uninhabitable by 2050, with some islands such as Kiribati being completely gone by 2100. The Pacific island nations have urged leaders around the world to act after the COP23 conference in Germany discussed climate change and implementing the 2015 Paris agreement on global warming. The COP23 The Maldives is a famous destination for honeymooners and families, and this is also at risk of completely disappearing. With the lowest elevation in the world and just an average height of four feet above sea level, this too could be gone in the next century. The Solomon Islands have also been affected, with five of them already having completely sunk. New Zealand has become the first nation to create a new visa category for people who live on the islands, and are a product of island displacement. Getty Pacific Islands has warned that many islands are sinking, threatening the homes of many Professor Tim Flannery, a climate change expert at La Trobe University, told news.com.au: “It’s very concerning times, particularly if you live in a small island nation.”Many of those nations are already making agreements to deal with the problem as it develops.” He explained further: “As sea water rises it starts to penetrate the freshwater on the land, that’s the most immediate threat for a lot of the island.”Beach and coastal erosion and flooding is another threat. With these two factors it’s entirely possible within the next 30 years some islands could be rendered uninhabitable.” Getty The Maldives is a popular destination for honeymooners, but may not be around in the next decade They aren’t the only tourist destinations that could disappear within 50 years.~ Rising sea levels are also occurring due to glaciers melting as the planet warms up. The famous Columbia Glacier in Alaska is at risk due to the speed in which it is melting. Related articles UK weather: 2017 could be one of top three HOTTEST years ever recorded Great Barrier Reef DYING: Corals among 62 natural wonders under threat Earth under THREAT: Humans must do THIS to save the planet
  25

 25 : COP26_UK246
Working with the Scottish Communities Climate Action Network (SCCAN), the Climate Reflections Exhibition and Witness Report Series will launch on Friday, November 5 and open on Saturday and Sunday, November 6 and 7. The exhibition brings together the voices of Indigenous people fighting for their way of life from communities in the global south who are already on the frontlines of climate change, and those in Scotland who are beginning to explore what this crisis will mean for our world. The exhibition is joined by British Geological Survey hydrologist and artist, Nicole Manley, who presents her film and photography evidence of flooding and ground water impact in Scotland and the Philippines (pictured). COP26 . “We are also grateful to National Mining Museum Scotland for giving these community voices a space during such a high profile event for climate action that is COP26 Glasgow. The Climate Reflection and Witness Report will be open to the public, free of charge, on November 6 and 7. On the final day of COP26 , November 12, the museum will host its Changing Perspectives conference.
  26

 26 : COP24_UK161
Countries must slash emissions by five times their planned amount in the next 11 years if they are to avert disastrous global warming, the UN has warned. Vanishing islands, widespread species extinctions and extreme weather have all been predicted under even the most optimistic climate predictions. However, experts think the worst effects of climate change can be averted if the world breaks its dependence on carbon-emitting fossil fuels. CO2 pollution increased in 2017 after a promising three-year decline, dashing hopes that the world had reached peak emissions. Initial reports suggest in 2018 this worrying trend will continue. Despite efforts to eradicate fossil fuels in many countries, plans to slash emissions are still way off what is required to keep warming under 2C above pre-industrial levels. This is even more pronounced if the more ambitious target of 1.5C recommended by many in the global climate science community is to be achieved. In a new report, UN environment specialists predict that if this “emissions gap” is not closed by 2030, the world will never meet these targets, which are set out by the Paris climate agreement. This echoes the scientific conclusions of the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC) in October, which found emissions needed to halve in 12 years to avoid climate catastrophe. The scientists behind that report predicted a world of melting Arctic sea ice, climate refugees and dying coral reefs as it soars past the 1.5C threshold. “If the IPCC report represented a global fire alarm, this report is the arson investigation,” said UN environment deputy executive director Joyce Msuya. “The science is clear: for all the ambitious climate action we’ve seen, governments need to move faster and with greater urgency. We’re feeding this fire while the means to extinguish it are within reach.” Nations must set more ambitious commitments and triple their emissions cuts by 2030 to meet a 2C target, and increase cuts by five times to meet the 1.5C target. If current trends continue, the Earth will likely heat up by 3.2C by the end of the century. The report comes at a crucial time for climate change preparations, arriving shortly after the IPCC’s report and the week before important climate discussions begin at COP24 in Poland. While governments have so far failed in stepping up to the challenge, climate experts said there was hope among the “doom and gloom” predictions. “It’s clear that governments can make global carbon emissions peak and decline soon if they simply do more of what’s proven to work, such as cutting energy waste and switching from coal to clean energy,” said Richard Black, director of the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit Dr Jian Liu, UN Environment’s chief scientist, said governments must act by subsidising renewable energy sources such as wind and solar, and taxing fossil fuels heavily instead of supporting them. “If all fossil fuel subsidies were phased out, global carbon emissions could be reduced by up to 10 percent by 2030,” he said. Despite global progress in renewable energy, much of the world still remains locked into high-polluting fuels like coal and oil, and opposition to climate science from major nations like the US and Brazil looks set to jeopardise the fight against global warming. While the UK has cut emissions by more than 40 per cent since 1990, green groups say this progress is being hampered as the government stalls on switching to electric vehicles and supports fracking. “This is the biggest threat humanity has faced and the urgency of action required is shocking. What are governments waiting for?” said Greenpeace International executive director Jennifer Morgan. With cities around the world banning non-electric cars, regional governments phasing out coal power and banks turning their back on fossil fuel investments, Ms Morgan said hope may now lie with these non-state actors. Representatives from governments, NGOs and businesses gather in the Polish city of Katowice for the UN’s COP24 summit next week - an event seen by many as a potential turning point in efforts to avert climate change.
  27

 27 : COP25_UK2
MADRID, Spain – What: Africa Day When: 10 December 2019 Where: Room 3, Hall 4 at IFEMA Conference Centre, Madrid Time: 18:30 to 20:00 Who: Jointly organized by the African Union Commission, African Development Bank (AfDB.org), and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa Officials, experts, activists and journalists are invited to take part and cover the Africa Day at the COP25 conference in Madrid on 10 December 2019, in room 3 at the IFEMA Conference Centre. During this event, leaders will provide an update of the global commitments made at the world’s leading climate change meeting. Africa Day marks Africa’s presence and participation at the various United Nations Climate Change Conference (UNFCCC) sessions since COP 17. Africa Day provides a platform for the continent’s decision makers and other stakeholders to engage in a dialogue that informs the region’s course of action around climate change. The discussions will touch on effective means of implementation (finance, capacity building, and technology development and transfer) of the Paris Agreement. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). Media Contacts: African Union Esther Azaa Tankou Head of Information Division Directorate of Information and Communication African Union Commission Email: HYPERLINK mailto:YambouE@africa-union.org YambouE@africa-union.org African Development Bank Gershwin Wanneburg Communication and External Relations Department African Development Bank Email: HYPERLINK mailto:g.wanneburg@afdb.org g.wanneburg@afdb.org Pan-African Parliament Ntsiuoa Sekete Senior Communications and Media Officer Pan-African Parliament Email: HYPERLINK mailto:ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  28

 28 : COP21_UK233
Click here for full-size image epa05049322 Ukraine’s President Petro Poroshenko (L) is greeted by French president Francois Hollande (R) before the family photo during the COP21 , United Nations Climate Change Conference , in Le Bourget, outside Paris, France, 30 November 2015. The 21st Conference of the Parties ( COP21 ) is held in Paris from 30 November to 11 December aimed at reaching an international agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions and curtail climate change. EPA/MARTIN BUREAU / POOL MAXPPP OUT IMAGE ID: EPALIVE926934 HYPERLINK Subject to copyright. Click here for information regarding redistribution of this image.
  29

 29 : COP25_UK122
Former prime minister David Cameron has turned down an offer from Boris Johnson to head the UK’s preparations for a crucial international climate summit in Glasgow, it is claimed. The current PM asked his predecessor to be the president of the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) but was rejected, the Daily Telegraph reported. According to The Times, former Tory leader William Hague was also sounded out for the presidency. The disclosure comes after Mr Johnson refused to answer questions about who would take on the job during the event’s launch on Tuesday. Former clean growth minister Claire O’Neill, who stood down as a Tory MP at the general election, was sacked as president of the talks by the PM’s special adviser, Dominic Cummings, on Friday. The Government said the post would be a ministerial role in future. The UN climate talks, to be held in Glasgow in November, are the most important since the Paris Agreement to curb global warming was secured in 2015. Countries are expected to deliver more ambitious domestic plans for cutting greenhouse gases by 2030, as current proposals are not enough to prevent dangerous temperature rises. Pressure is also on countries to set out long-term plans for cutting emissions, with the science now clear that the world must reduce greenhouse gases to zero in a matter of decades to avoid the worst impacts of climate change. The run-up to the talks will require a major diplomatic effort from the UK to secure ambitious climate action from countries - at a time when Britain is also negotiating trade agreements with the EU and other nations. “My understanding is that he felt it was just a little too soon for him personally to come back into a frontline political role,” he told BBC Two’s Newsnight.
  30

 30 : COP24_UK151
As the dust settles over the latest United Nations annual climate summit ( COP24 It would be historically unprecedented not to mention politically suicidal for countries’ leaders to adopt voluntarily, during peacetime, an energy policy that reduces current living standards because of a potential threat of reduced living standards 50 years into the future. Though he doesn’ t explicitly spell this out, Mr Majumdar implies, by implementing carbon taxes, that the key to solving the world’ s pollution problem is a combination of these well-targeted economic incentives with the ongoing technological advances in extracting and using carbon-based fuels, enhancing the substitution of these fuels with renewables and nuclear energy, and aggressively promoting the fifth fuel Daniel Yergin’ s catch-all term for conservation, energy efficiency and energy productivity ( The Quest: Energy, Security, and the Remaking of the Modern World , 2011). With enhanced research budgets in both private and public laboratories along with the above mentioned targeted economic incentives, the world’ s energy system over the next 50 to 100 years can be redirected on to a low- or no-polluting trajectory. Ira Sohn Professor of Economics and Finance,Montclair State University, NJ, US
  31

 31 : COP21_UK188
Small island countries facing flooding from rising sea levels are closing in on a deal with wealthy countries that would see loss and damage support measures included in the HYPERLINK global climate accord to be finalised in Paris this week . Developed countries have been resisting such a move for more than a year, fearing it could make them liable for billions of dollars in compensation. But Miguel Arias Ca’f1ete, EU climate commissioner, told the Financial Times there was now a growing understanding that loss and damage provisions would be included in the Paris agreement, as long as they did not expose wealthy countries to new claims for compensation. A draft text of the agreement was finalised on Saturday. Mr Arias Ca’f1ete said a meeting that Barack Obama, US president, had with five island leaders last week at the Paris talks, known as COP21 , had helped smooth the way for a compromise on what has become one of the more divisive issues in UN climate talks in recent years. I am very glad that the US is showing flexibility because from the very beginning of this process we have supported this concept of course with adequate language [on compensation], he said. But he added: There is one thing that we do not accept and will not accept in this agreement and that is the notion that there should be liability and compensation for loss and damage. That is a line that we can’ t cross. This is not a US-centric position but it is a position that is important for us. It is still unclear what type of loss and damage measures might make it into the final accord that delegates from nearly 200 nations are due to seal this Friday. The draft text of the agreement called for a climate change displacement co-ordination facility to be set up to relocate people affected by the fierce storms and other extreme weather scientists say is more likely as global temperatures rise. The text also says plans to address irreversible and permanent damage resulting from human-induced climate change should be completed within four years. Island country delegates said they were very pleased wealthy countries were no long rejecting outright the notion that their failure to combat global warming meant extra support was needed for small, poor countries facing a threat to their existence. But James Fletcher of St Lucia, the small Caribbean island state, said the question of how to frame loss and damage support in the Paris agreement was still a stumbling block. We believe we already have avenues for liability and compensation under international law and international agreements, he said. The discussion going on right now is a discussion among lawyers. How do we end up with a text that allays the fears of the US, the EU and other countries that we are creating a mechanism for liability and compensation. And how do you address our concern that we do not give up any rights that we presently already have under international agreements. UN climate talks have been held for more than 20 years without managing to produce the deep cuts in global emissions from burning fossil fuels that scientists say are required to avert dangerous levels of global warming. HYPERLINK Listen to the FT News podcast
  32

 32 : COP21_UK305
India, one of the world’ s largest coal users, will cut back on its investments in the fuel if the new climate deal due to be struck next week in Paris delivers more money to help it shift to cleaner sources of energy such as solar power, a senior negotiator said on Wednesday. We’ ve made it very clear that solar and wind is our first commitment, said Ajay Mathur, director general of India’ s Bureau of Energy Efficiency, at the Paris talks, HYPERLINK known as COP21 . Hydro, nuclear, all of these non-carbon sources are what we will develop to the largest extent we can, he told reporters. But it has to be affordable. He was speaking as campaigners from a fossil fuel divestment movement said the number of investors shunning coal, gas and oil has surged ahead of the Paris conference. At least 500 institutions with more than $3.4tn in assets have pledged to avoid or cut holdings in fossil fuels, said activist groups 350.org and Divest-Invest. That represents a big jump from a year ago, when 181 institutions representing about $50bn in assets were committed to such a step, they said. A spate of city councils, banks, pension funds, churches and universities have pledged to cut back or shun coal investments this year. One of the most striking commitments came last month when Allianz, the German insurance group, said it would pull more than € 4bn ($4.3bn) from companies with coal businesses. Earlier this year, the Norwegian parliament decided the country’ s $857bn sovereign wealth fund should withdraw from any company in which coal represents more than 30 per cent of the business. Both moves came in the wake of a divestment campaign that began on US college campuses more than two years ago in an effort to make fossil fuel holdings as unpopular as tobacco or investments in apartheid-era South Africa. Churches and wealthy individuals with an interest in climate change then joined, including the heirs to the Rockefeller oil fortune. The momentum in this divestment campaign is accelerating day by day, Stephen Heintz, president of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, told journalists at the Paris climate conference on Wednesday. There is a moral imperative to save the planet and to do so we need to end the fossil fuel era now, he said. Benjamin Sporton, chief executive of the World Coal Association said that although the campaigners’ multi-trillion dollar headline figures seemed large, a lot of the institutions and funds with these assets did not currently have coal holdings and the amount of money actually being pulled out of coal was relatively small. While there are companies and funds saying they want to get out of coal, there are plenty of others that are remaining invested, he told the Financial Times. This was especially the case in South East Asia and in large countries such as India, where governments are planning to continue using coal for electricity. Mr Sporton said he hoped the Paris climate talks would help drive the use of technology that allows coal to be burnt more efficiently and cleanly, a chief aim of his members. Coal companies have borne the brunt of the divestment push because coal produces more carbon emissions when burnt than other fossil fuels such as natural gas. But it remains an abundant and cheap source of energy in many developing countries and is the biggest source of electricity globally, accounting for a 41 per cent share of the world’ s electricity, according to the International Energy Agency. That global share is expected to fall to just over 30 per cent by 2030, the agency says, as fast-growing renewable energy sources supply a larger proportion of electricity. However, divestments have not been the only feature of this year’ s assault on coal. Banks have made public their refusal to fund some coal investments. In Australia, where India’ s Adani group wants to build the country’ s largest proposed coal project, Standard Chartered has said it will no longer be involved in the increasingly controversial development. Banks including Deutsche and HSBC had already steered clear. And multilateral commitments to the coal industry have been reined in. Last month member states of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development agreed limits on export subsidies for coal-fired power stations, following unilateral initiatives to curb export credits by countries including the UK and US. But divestment has its critics. Anne Stausboll, chief executive of Calpers, the California state pension system, has called lobbying for divestment flawed and said it is more constructive to engage with companies where the fund invests. However California approved a divestment law in October. Calpers will evaluate divestment as outlined in the bill , the fund said. As of June it had $57m invested in 27 thermal coal companies. Listen to the HYPERLINK World Weekly podcast
  33

 33 : COP26_UK322
The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has thrown its weight behind the shift towards loans and projects being fully aligned with the Paris climate agreement, timing its announcement for COP26 . The announcement comes as world leaders gathered at COP26 , the annual UN climate change conference being staged this year in Glasgow, Scotland. “We know that if we prioritise smart investments today, the cornerstone of our global fight against climate change can mutually reinforce our pandemic recovery efforts and we can speed up our responses.”Aligning our work to Paris Agreement objectives furthers our commitment to limit the temperature rise to well below 2’b0 Celsius and build climate resilience. But this alone is not enough.”~ IDB also took the COP26 opportunity to announce another ambitious climate target - to provide $24 billion for climate and green finance over the next 4 years. The IDB president said: “We are pushing the envelope on our financing, improving our internal structure to prioritize climate action, and increasing our engagements and external partnerships.”Our role, as the region’s leading development bank, is to help our 26 borrowing member countries mitigate and adapt to climate risks. We are ready to help seize an unprecedented opportunity to achieve a decarbonized and climate-resilient future in the region.” Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  34

 34 : COP21_UK48
Mission Innovation aims to provide affordable and reliable energy for everyone to ensure energy security while doing away with carbon emission. As part of the initiative, the participating nations intend to double their respective investment for clean energy research and development (R&D) over five years. The participating nations include Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Denmark, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Norway, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Sweden, UAE, the UK and the US. White House officials were cited by the Press Trust of India as saying that the counties have pledged to invest about $20bn during the period. Mission Innovation is complemented by a separate initiative, Breakthrough Energy Coalition, formed by over 28 private investors from 10 countries and led by Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates. The Breakthrough Energy Coalition aims to invest in technology which would help solve the urgent energy and climate challenges. The initiative will invest on a number of sectors including electricity generation and storage; transportation; industrial use; agriculture; and energy system efficiency. The two initiatives have been announced at the COP21 in Paris, the United Nations Climate Change Conference . Other investors include Reliance Industries, Laura and John Arnold Foundation, Amazon, Salesforce.com, Alwaleed Philanthropies, Virgin Group, Bridgewater Associates, SoftBank Group, Dangote Group, Alibaba Group, Sequoia Capital China, Tata Sons, Facebook, University of California, among others.
  35

 35 : COP21_UK340
Click here for full-size image epa05048344 Swiss President Simonetta Sommaruga (R) is welcomed by French President Francois Hollande (L), upon her arrival for the opening of the UN conference on climate change COP21 , at Le Bourget, outside Paris, 30 November 2015. The 21st Conference of the Parties ( COP21 ) is held in Paris from 30 November to 11 December aimed at reaching an international agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions and curtail climate change. EPA/LOIC VENANCE / POOL MAXPPP OUT IMAGE ID: EPALIVE926294 HYPERLINK Subject to copyright. Click here for information regarding redistribution of this image.
  36

 36 : COP23_UK210
Dominique Duval, who had already been running Agricole’s Asia Pacific sustainable banking business from Paris, moved to Hong Kong in November. Agricole’s sustainable banking team, headed by Tanguy Claquin, has also recently added Hugues Delafon, a managing director and former head of corporate debt capital markets. It now has eight members in Paris, plus Duval. “This demonstrates our leadership in Asia Pacific and confirms that we want to be committed to the region,” said Duval. She said Cr’e9dit Agricole was top of the league table for bookrunning green bonds in Asia Pacific. Duval expects China to be particularly busy with green bond issuance in 2018. “With France, it’s the largest issuer of green bonds,” said Duval. “It makes sense”” they have plenty of green investments to be made and because of their commitments during COP 21 and COP 23 .” “We are also expecting other countries in the region to be busy,” Duval added. The governments of Hong Kong, Indonesia and Malaysia are all expected to issue green bonds. Natixis has also recently installed a senior sustainable finance banker in Hong Kong, although in this case it was an external hire. Chaoni Huang, formerly of S&P Trucost, was appointed in December as director of green and sustainable solutions for Asia Pacific. The green and sustainable solutions hub at Natixis, headed by Orith Azoulay in Paris, is somewhat unusual in that it combines not just acting for green bond and loan issuers, but creating equity and debt structured products for investors; fundamental environmental, social and governance research; and corporate advisory. Thus it includes staff on both the private and public sides of the market. Natixis’s corporate and investment bank wants to double its green revenues by 2020.
  37

 37 : COP26_UK165
LONDON, United Kingdom – Sharma to urge countries to deliver on the commitments made in the historic Glasgow Climate Pact; the COP President will say it is in the self-interest of countries to work together on climate change; Speech at Chatham House in London will outline priorities for the UK’s COP Presidency year. Countries need to work together to deliver on the promises made in Glasgow COP26 President, Alok Sharma, will say today
(Monday 24th January). In his first major speech since COP26 , Sharma will reflect on the commitments secured at COP26 and the historic Glasgow Climate Pact signed by almost 200 countries at the summit last year. He will set out his agenda to turn ambition into action for the rest of the UK’s Presidency this year, outlining that whilst the summit has concluded, the world must maintain the urgency and the energy to honour the promises made, as we approach COP27 in Sharm-El Sheikh in November. Today’s speech will outline the UK’s priorities to deliver on the Glasgow Climate Pact during its COP Presidency year: 1. Ensuring promises on emissions reductions are kept to keep 1.5 degrees alive. That every country honours the commitment in the Glasgow Climate Pact to strengthen their climate change targets to align with the Paris temperature goal as necessary in 2022, as well as for delivering on their net zero commitments and 2030 emissions reduction targets, particularly through policies to end coal power, halt deforestation and transition to clean vehicles 2. Delivering for climate vulnerable countries by ensuring commitments on adaptation and loss and damage are honoured. Working with donors to make progress towards doubling adaptation finance by 2025 and developing a clear proposal and funding for the Santiago Network by COP27 3. Get finance flowing. The UK through the COP Presidency will help ensure countries, international financial institutions and private financial institutions deliver on the commitments they have made to meet the $ 100bn goal. And we will aim to increase public-private partnerships to support climate action, building on the South African Just Energy Transition Partnership. We will support Parties to make progress on the post-2025 climate finance goal 4. Working together and continuing to be an inclusive Presidency. Pushing for further action across critical sectors and turning promises into clear delivery plans through established forums and international councils. The UK through the COP Presidency will work hand-in-hand with the COP27 President Egypt, COP28 President UAE, our international partners, business, youth and civil society, to deliver our priorities and keep climate at the top of the international agenda COP President Alok Sharma is expected to say: “At COP26”The Glasgow Climate Pact was a product of international cooperation and a practical demonstration of Global Britain in action. “There is no doubt that the commitments we secured at COP26 were historic. Yet at the moment they are just words on a page. And unless we honour the promises made, to turn the commitments in the Glasgow Climate Pact into action, they will wither on the vine. We will have mitigated no risks. Seized no opportunities. We will have fractured the trust built between nations. And 1.5 degrees will slip from our grasp.”So my absolute focus for the UK Presidency year is delivery.” Mr Sharma recently visited both COP27 President Egypt, and COP28 President UAE, to underline the importance of building strong partnerships with the next two hosts for the summit. This week, he will meet the UNFCCC to discuss the implementation of the measures agreed with Glasgow. He will also address the Major Economies Forum and continue to ramp up pressure on the rich donor nations to support climate vulnerable countries. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Government of UK. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com )) Language: ~ENGLISH
  38

 38 : COP23_UK90
November 10, 2017 As the impact of climate change worsens around the world, United Nations Secretary-General Ant’f3nio Guterres has called on the global community to redouble efforts to help countries respond to climate shocks, especially the most vulnerable. “I am encouraged to see climate action taking hold, at all scales, at all levels, involving an ever-wider coalition of actors and institutions,” said the Secretary-General, at a press stakeout at the UN Headquarters, in New York. “But we need to do more,” he underlined. In his remarks, the UN chief said that he will be travelling to Bonn to participate in the UN Climate Change Conference ( COP23 ), where, he will urge efforts to accelerate climate action as well as to raise ambition to do more. “The window of opportunity to meet the 2-degree target may close in 20 years or less - and we may have only five years to bend the emissions curve towards 1.5 degrees,” he said, noting the need for a further 25 per cent cut in emissions by 2020. Speaking on the need for bolstering finance, Mr. Guterres called for mobilizing the agreed $ 100 billion annually for developing countries, which is crucial to spur action. He also said that in September 2019, he will convene a Climate Summit to mobilize political and economic energy at the highest levels. “I ask world leaders to show courage in combatting entrenched interests; wisdom in investing in the opportunities of the future; and compassion in caring what kind of world we build for our children,” he said. “As a former politician myself, I have no doubt that in today’s world, this is the path to progress today and a meaningful legacy for tomorrow.” Also at the stakeout, the UN chief informed that before Bonn, he will visit the Philippines to attend the UN-ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) Summit, and after participating at COP23 , he will deliver an address at the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) University of London on counter-terrorism and human rights on Thursday, 16 November. “As the world responds to modern terrorism, our goal must be to win the fight while upholding our values,” he said.
  39

 39 : COP22_UK290
One month away from entering his 30th year as Zimbabwe’s President, Robert Mugabe has fuelled speculation that he might finally be set to step down. While political analysts have long suspected Africa’s oldest serving head of state woulddie in office, Mr Mugabe appears to have finally acknowledged the growing calls for him to resign. At the age of 92, Mr Mugabe is visibly frail. Opposition elements in Zimbabwe seized on footage of his “wobbly” arrival last week at the COP22 UN climate summit in Marrakech, Morocco. And speaking on his return to Harare in a key speech to senior government officials and police leaders, Mr Mugabe admitted that the country was entering a period he described as “regime change”. The war veterans who fought for Mr Mugabe against white minority rule and for independence in 1980 have been the foundation of his support during his 36 years as the country’s leader. But as the country’s economy has deteriorated beyond all hopes of a quick recovery, the failure to pay their pensions and support widows has seen his leadership questioned even by them. Addressing the officials, Mr Mugabe said: “If I am failing, let me know. I will go.” Read more Mugabe says Zimbabwe judges ‘reckless’ for allowing political protests Calls for the president to step aside were given new impetus in July by the former vice-president and close Mugabe ally Joice Mujuru, now having formed her own party in exile. Ms Mujuru said the president was corrupt, the country “collapsing” and that Mr Mugabe must “resign and call for fresh elections”. And while Mr Mugabe’s speech can be seen as a concession to his critics, there is no suggestion he will resign any time soon - despite some of the gleeful headlines the news has generated. According to his own ruling Zanu-PF party, Mr Mugabe will still contend the country’s 2018 elections. If he runs, he will most likely win, making him president until 2023 - when he would be 99 years old. According to a translation by the Africa Check web resource, Mr Mugabe said he accepted Zimbabwe’s leadership would have to change - but he rejected the idea of doing so on what he called “British, American” terms. The country that is banning its own national flag Mugabe returns to Zimbabwe and jokes ‘Yes, it’s true, I was dead’ Black South African politician calls for Mugabe-style ‘land grab’ Mugabe: There will be no ‘Arab Spring’ in Zimbabwe “We are in a critical time of regime change. To think that we will be toppled by whites who say ‘we want to change the government of Zimbabwe’ - which we fought for all these years, will we simply yield? I say no. The British [and] Americans are working hand in hand, but I think we have defeated them. So change will come in good time.”If I have to retire, let me retire properly; people must sit down and discuss it cordially and not go to traditional healers such as that woman did [Ms Mujuru], leaving us and calling themselves Zimbabwe [People] First [the party Mujuru started after she was expelled from Zanu-PF by Mugabe]. That’s just not OK.” If observers were looking for an indication that Mr Mugabe will change his authoritarian leadership style in the wake of his speech, there was none to be found in the news that five war veterans began their trial in Harare on Tuesday accused of undermining the president’s authority. Among those on trial are the former secretary-general and spokesman of the war veterans’ association, which announced in a statement in July that it was withdrawing its official backing for Mr Mugabe. All five defendants have been expelled from Zanu-PF and, if convicted, face up to 10 years in prison.
  40

 40 : COP21_UK315
The global shipping industry is delivering real CO2 reductions, despite an increase in maritime trade, according to a study by the International Chamber of Shipping (ICS). The progress has been highlighted ahead of the United Nations Climate Change Conference in December this year. According to ICS, the current CO2 emissions from international shipping represents 2.2% of the total CO2 emissions across the world, compared to 2.8% in 2007.
“With bigger ships, better engines and smarter speed management, the industry is confident of a 50% CO2 reduction by 2050 when the entire world fleet will comprise super fuel-efficient ships, many using clean fuels such as LNG.” The UN International Maritime Organization (IMO) has already mandated all ships built from 2025, including those in developing nations, to be 30% more efficient than ships built in the 2000s. The global shipping industry is already delivering carbon neutral growth having reduced total CO2 emissions by more than 10% since 2007, ICS noted. Hinchliffe added: “The entire world fleet is about 20% more efficient than in 2005.”With the support of the shipping industry, IMO has already achieved a great deal and is the only forum that can deliver further significant CO2 reductions from international shipping.” In April this year, the European Parliament approved the draft EU rules that demand ship owners using EU ports to monitor and report CO2 emissions each year. The new rules, which will come into effect from 2018 for ships of more than 5,000gt, is aimed at an EU-wide system for monitoring, reporting and verification (MRV) of greenhouse gas emissions from shipping.
  41
