News Articles Set 5
1

 1 : COP21_UK188
Small island countries facing flooding from rising sea levels are closing in on a deal with wealthy countries that would see loss and damage support measures included in the HYPERLINK global climate accord to be finalised in Paris this week . Developed countries have been resisting such a move for more than a year, fearing it could make them liable for billions of dollars in compensation. But Miguel Arias Ca’f1ete, EU climate commissioner, told the Financial Times there was now a growing understanding that loss and damage provisions would be included in the Paris agreement, as long as they did not expose wealthy countries to new claims for compensation. A draft text of the agreement was finalised on Saturday. Mr Arias Ca’f1ete said a meeting that Barack Obama, US president, had with five island leaders last week at the Paris talks, known as COP21 , had helped smooth the way for a compromise on what has become one of the more divisive issues in UN climate talks in recent years. I am very glad that the US is showing flexibility because from the very beginning of this process we have supported this concept of course with adequate language [on compensation], he said. But he added: There is one thing that we do not accept and will not accept in this agreement and that is the notion that there should be liability and compensation for loss and damage. That is a line that we can’ t cross. This is not a US-centric position but it is a position that is important for us. It is still unclear what type of loss and damage measures might make it into the final accord that delegates from nearly 200 nations are due to seal this Friday. The draft text of the agreement called for a climate change displacement co-ordination facility to be set up to relocate people affected by the fierce storms and other extreme weather scientists say is more likely as global temperatures rise. The text also says plans to address irreversible and permanent damage resulting from human-induced climate change should be completed within four years. Island country delegates said they were very pleased wealthy countries were no long rejecting outright the notion that their failure to combat global warming meant extra support was needed for small, poor countries facing a threat to their existence. But James Fletcher of St Lucia, the small Caribbean island state, said the question of how to frame loss and damage support in the Paris agreement was still a stumbling block. We believe we already have avenues for liability and compensation under international law and international agreements, he said. The discussion going on right now is a discussion among lawyers. How do we end up with a text that allays the fears of the US, the EU and other countries that we are creating a mechanism for liability and compensation. And how do you address our concern that we do not give up any rights that we presently already have under international agreements. UN climate talks have been held for more than 20 years without managing to produce the deep cuts in global emissions from burning fossil fuels that scientists say are required to avert dangerous levels of global warming. HYPERLINK Listen to the FT News podcast
  2

 2 : COP25_UK2
MADRID, Spain – What: Africa Day When: 10 December 2019 Where: Room 3, Hall 4 at IFEMA Conference Centre, Madrid Time: 18:30 to 20:00 Who: Jointly organized by the African Union Commission, African Development Bank (AfDB.org), and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa Officials, experts, activists and journalists are invited to take part and cover the Africa Day at the COP25 conference in Madrid on 10 December 2019, in room 3 at the IFEMA Conference Centre. During this event, leaders will provide an update of the global commitments made at the world’s leading climate change meeting. Africa Day marks Africa’s presence and participation at the various United Nations Climate Change Conference (UNFCCC) sessions since COP 17. Africa Day provides a platform for the continent’s decision makers and other stakeholders to engage in a dialogue that informs the region’s course of action around climate change. The discussions will touch on effective means of implementation (finance, capacity building, and technology development and transfer) of the Paris Agreement. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). Media Contacts: African Union Esther Azaa Tankou Head of Information Division Directorate of Information and Communication African Union Commission Email: HYPERLINK mailto:YambouE@africa-union.org YambouE@africa-union.org African Development Bank Gershwin Wanneburg Communication and External Relations Department African Development Bank Email: HYPERLINK mailto:g.wanneburg@afdb.org g.wanneburg@afdb.org Pan-African Parliament Ntsiuoa Sekete Senior Communications and Media Officer Pan-African Parliament Email: HYPERLINK mailto:ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  3

 3 : COP21_UK40
Taipei, Taiwan - Delta announced that it joined the ‘Road to Paris’ initiative by the Carbon Disclosure Project and has committed to a 30% reduction in its electricity intensity by the year 2020, which follows a 50% reduction already achieved by the company over the past five years. Delta Electronics will actively participate in a series of events that reflect its commitment to sustainability during the upcoming COP21 . Delta will present its 21 green buildings, which it has constructed over the past 10 years, at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. In addition, Delta will organize a side event, which has been approved by the United Nations COP21 General Secretariat, to share its knowledge and achievements in energy savings and the construction of green buildings. Mr. Ping Cheng, chief executive officer of Delta Electronics, emphasized, ‘Delta has a long-term commitment to sustainability. From 2010 to 2014, we successfully reduced our electricity intensity (electricity use per product value) by 50% compared to 2009 and in the past 10 years we have constructed 21 green buildings. Delta is now enhancing our commitment by engaging in the CDP’s Road to Paris initiative and promising a further 30% reduction in electricity intensity by 2020, and we are expanding our commitment to the whole group.’ Ms. Shan-Shan Guo, chief brand officer of Delta Electronics and executive director of Delta Electronics Foundation, said, ‘Delta is honored to have received permission by the UN COP21 General Secretariat to organize a side event at the Climate Generations areas during COP21 . After 10 years of implementing green buildings, we wish to share our experience by organizing a side event and hosting the ’Delta 21 Green Buildings at COP21 Exhibition’ at the Grand Palais, and show the world the efforts of a corporation that is deeply committed to sustainability.’ Since 2007, the Delta Electronics Foundation has attended the UN Climate Change Conferences annually, and in 2014, it hosted a side event in which Delta introduced their experience on rebuilding the Namasia Elementary School. Over the years, Delta’s efforts to reduce carbon emissions have been recognized by international organizations such as the CDP, which selected Delta for its Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) in 2014-the only company chosen from the Greater China region. For the past five consecutive years, Delta has also been a member of the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) World Index and was a leader in the ICT Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Components in 2015. 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP21 ) will be the most important climate change conference in the past 10 years. We expect the participating countries to reach an agreement to reduce carbon emissions. During COP21 , Delta will use its advanced ‘edge-blending’ projection capabilities to exhibit its entire portfolio of green buildings inside the Grand Palais in Paris, France. The Delta Electronics Foundation will also organize a side event to share Delta’s contributions on green buildings and carbon footprint reduction. Contact: Delta Group 186, Ruey Kuang Road Neihu, Taipei 11491 Taiwan, R.O.C Tel: +886-2-8797-2088 Email: HYPERLINK mailto:news@delta.com.tw news@delta.com.tw [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  4

 4 : COP24_UK163
Greta Thunberg, a 15-year-old Swedish girl, impresses Hayley Matthews with her impassioned speech to a United Nations meeting on climate change. Sunday was World Earth Day, and if you do anything over the next 24 hours, I urge you to watch 15-year-old activist Greta Thunberg’s speech at the UN COP24 climate talks. She spoke on behalf of Climate Justice Now and she nailed it. She stated how “many people say that Sweden is just a small country and it doesn’t matter what we do. But I’ve learned you are never too small to make a difference.” READ MORE: Why protesters should be wary of 12 years to climate breakdown’ rhetoric - Myles Allen Her speech has left me with shivers and made me think, even more than I already do, on how I can make a positive impact on climate change. She spoke with poise, gravitas and clarity on something that many of us are passionate about and her enthusiasm for our planet, as well as her warning of the devastation in the coming years to come should we not act now, was awe-inspiring. She spoke of how our civilisation is being sacrificed for the opportunity of a very small number of people to continue making enormous amounts of money. Greed, human greed, is what is stopping us from repairing a lot of the damage that we’ve done, and continue to do, to our Earth. She hit me hard with one sentence that I’ll leave you with and it is this: “You say you love your children above all else, and yet you are stealing their future in front of their very eyes.” Please, for your children’s sake and their children’s sake - listen to what young Greta has to say, before it’s too late. READ MORE: World seems ambivalent about swift action on climate change - IPCC chair
  5

 5 : COP25_UK278
By NFUS climate change policy manager, Ruth Taylor ’ COP25 The parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change meet every year to assess progress in tackling climate change - and we are acutely aware that next year it is the turn of Glasgow to host. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions while providing food for an ever-growing world population, set to reach 10 billion by 2050, poses an enormous global challenge. However, after listening to discussions, expert panels, and to the negotiations on agricultural emissions at UN level, it is apparent that farmers from across the globe, and not just Scotland, are committed to finding a solution. At COP25 Agriculture as a global industry is hugely diverse, and there will clearly be no silver bullet to solve this challenge. There is a recognition that this diversity must be factored into in the delivery of future policy, and that successful mitigation and adaptation policies will have to be provided as a package of measures. We need to make sure that targets set at both national and international level are translated into policies that reflect local priorities and needs, as well as providing incentives and support for innovation. NFU Scotland has always been clear that measures introduced to mitigate climate change are supported by robust scientific evidence. It was encouraging to see that message emphasised by members of the international farming community, with the President of the World Farmers’ Organisation emphasising: ‘If the process is not science-led then it is not sustainable’. With next year’s conference taking take place in Glasgow, climate change will undoubtedly remain at the forefront of the public and political agenda. By then, decisions on carbon markets will have to be made and all countries will be expected to have made new climate change commitments. Climate change will continue to be a critically important issue for Scottish farming, and COP26 will be a key opportunity for Scottish farming to showcase all the vital work farmers across the country are doing to reduce their emissions and sequester carbon. It is clear that there will be no successful climate change process without the involvement and contribution of the agriculture sector.’ Original NFUS blog -~ HYPERLINK ~
  6

 6 : COP21_UK65
With the United Nations climate conference ( COP21 ) starting in Paris in less than two weeks away, the World Health Organization (WHO) today underlined that climate change is already causing tens of thousands of deaths every year, and called on countries to take strong actions to address the issue. The UN health agency is attributing these deaths to shifting patterns of disease from extreme weather events - such as heat-waves and floods - and from the degradation of air quality, food and water supplies, and sanitation. “The upcoming United Nations climate change conference ( COP21 ) in Paris offers the world an important opportunity to not only reach a strong international climate agreement, but also to protect the health of current and future generations,” WHO stressed in a press release, adding that the agreement would have the potential to save lives worldwide. In 2012, the agency estimated 7 million people died from air pollution-related diseases, making it the world’s largest single environmental health risk. It is predicted that climate change will cause an additional 25 000 deaths per year from malaria, diarrhoea, heat stress and under-nutrition between 2030 and 2050. Children, women and the poor in lower income countries will reportedly be the most vulnerable and most affected, widening health gaps. Highlighting that not only are ways to combat climate change already known and well-documented, WHO said they can bring important health gains. As its new series of climate change and health country profiles illustrate, investments in low-carbon development, clean renewable energy, and strengthening climate resilience, are also investments in health.
“Implementing proven interventions to reduce emissions of short-lived climate pollutants, like black carbon and methane, for example achieving higher vehicle emissions and efficiency standards, would be expected to save approximately 2.4 million lives a year and reduce global warming by about 0.5’b0C by 2050,” the agency reported. In addition, placing a price on polluting fuels to compensate their negative health impacts would be expected to cut outdoor air pollution deaths by half, reduce carbon dioxide emissions by more than 20 per cent, and raise approximately US$ 3 trillion per year in revenue - over half the total value of health spending by all of the world’s governments. WHO is also insisting that strengthening health resilience to climate risks, including measures such as early-warning systems for more frequent and severe heatwaves, and protection of water, sanitation, and hygiene services against floods and droughts, would ensure that recent progress against climate-sensitive diseases, is not slowed or reversed. “Nevertheless, the profound consequences for health are still not given sufficient attention in debates about climate change,” it warned. In preparation for COP21 , formally the 21st Meeting of the States Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), WHO indicated that countries have made important commitments to cut greenhouse gas emissions and scale up adaptation to climate change, but more needs to be done. “If countries take strong actions to address climate change, while protecting and promoting health, they will collectively bring about a planet that is not only more environmentally intact, but also has cleaner air, more abundant and safer freshwater and food, more effective and fairer health and social protection systems - and as a result, healthier people,” the press release concluded. It further highlighted that the conference “is the time for the health community to lend their voice to the international climate discussion and ask countries to come together and make bold commitments to protect our planet and the health of current and future generations.”
(Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  7

 7 : COP26_UK39
HYPERLINK - COP26 COP26 - Mr Sharma met Vietnamese Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh and key ministers in Hanoi, welcoming 2050 Viet Nam’s net zero commitment - In Indonesia, Mr Sharma met a range of ministers to discuss how the UK and Indonesia can work together to reinforce climate action during Indonesia’s G20 Presidency COP26 President Alok Sharma travelled to Indonesia and Viet Nam this week to progress and strengthen delivery of the landmark Glasgow Climate Pact. These visits continue the work of the UK COP Presidency to press for updated climate commitments from all countries ahead of COP27 in Egypt, aligned with the crucial goal of limiting global temperature rises to 1.5 degrees. In Viet Nam (13-15 February), Mr Sharma met Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh, Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Tran Hong Ha - Viet Nam’s Chief Negotiator for climate change, and Minister of Industry and Trade Nguyen Hong Dien, and Minister of Planning and Investment Nguyen Chi Dung. Mr Sharma welcomed the ambitious commitments made by Prime Minister Chinh at COP26 , including a 2050 net zero commitment and endorsing the ‘Coal to clean power transition’ statement. He underlined the UK’s determination to work with Viet Nam to achieve its commitments and to put forward a 2030 climate action plan that aligns with the 1.5 degree goal. The COP President also acknowledged the scale of the task to deliver the public investment needed for Viet Nam to transition to clean energy, and the finance needed to provide dedicated support to Viet Nam to support its ambitious climate commitments. This includes the potential for support through the ‘Clean Green Initiative’, which aims to help developing countries take advantage of green technology and grow their economies sustainably. In a meeting with members of civil society, Mr Sharma explored the opportunities and challenges for their organisations and Viet Nam in responding to climate change, and emphasised that active engagement with these organisations was key to the success of COP26 and will be vital in delivering the commitments of the Glasgow Climate Pact. He also hosted a roundtable with representatives from international companies to discuss the vast potential of renewable energy in the country. This potential is highlighted in the UK-chaired Energy Transition Council report on coal abatement, which highlights that by switching to wind, solar and gas, by 2030 Viet Nam can reduce 59% of emissions, create 280,000 jobs and save $ 120bn of fuel imports. In Indonesia (15-17 February), Mr Sharma met the coordinating Ministers of Maritime Affairs and Investment, and Economic Affairs, and the Ministers for Finance, and Energy and Mineral Resources, thanking each for Indonesia’s strong presence at COP26 . Mr Sharma welcomed the Indonesian government making climate action a key priority for their G20 Presidency and pledged the UK’s support in encouraging all G20 countries to keep to the commitments made in the Glasgow Climate Pact. This follows fresh UK announcements made at COP26 working with Indonesia and the wider region on nature and biodiversity, climate resilience, renewable technologies, and UK funded green investments to support clean infrastructure projects. With huge renewable energy resources that could power all the country’s electricity needs more than five times over, Mr Sharma also said that Indonesia can become a regional and global leader in low carbon energy technologies and innovation, creating new industries and jobs. On the final day in Indonesia, Mr Sharma visited the seawall in Jakarta to speak to flood experts and communities on efforts to increase the city’s resilience to land subsidence. Extreme weather and sea level rises linked to climate change may make addressing this challenge even more difficult, emphasising the need for support for countries to build resilience to climate change. COP President Alok Sharma said: COP26 Speaking after his visit to Viet Nam, Mr Sharma said: I welcome the climate leadership Prime Minister Chinh demonstrated at COP26 , including the vital goal to reach net zero by 2050. It was beneficial to discuss in person how the UK can work with Viet Nam to achieve these ambitious targets, particularly around how improvements in their grid infrastructure could be transformational and help deliver a 2030 plan that aligns with the 1.5 degree temperature limit. On Indonesia, Mr Sharma said: Indonesia, as G20 President, has a vital role to play in ensuring countries deliver what they promised in Glasgow. As a fast growing economy with significant renewable energy potential, Indonesia has the opportunity to become a climate leader and accelerate the transition from coal power. We and other G20 partners are keen to support and recognise its ambition. Ends (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com )) Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  8

 8 : COP22_UK100
THE United Nations came to Cardiff last week when students from across Wales took part in a mock United Nations conference on climate change. Students from across the country joined the debate and represented countries such as Brazil, USA, the Philippines and Saudi Arabia. The conference, run annually by Size of Wales in partnership with Welsh Centre for International Affairs, gives young people an opportunity to discuss the issue of climate change from the perspective of world leaders. Topics discussed ranged from clean energy, protecting rainforests, disaster management and how to finance these. “The conference encourages young people to be more engaged with climate change and political issues” said Janie Pridham, education officer at Size of Wales. “It also helps them develop understanding of other nations and cultures and to consider the responsibility of Wales, both locally and globally.” She added: “The standard of debate was extremely high this year.”It was wonderful to see the students take on their roles in such a realistic way. “Some delegates were quoting Trump and there was even a smear campaign between countries.” The aim of the day was for delegates to agree an international resolution on the issue of climate change, similar to the UN climate change COP22 talks that were held in Marrakesh in November. This year Sophie Howe, the Future Generations Commissioner, joined the event, acting as the secretary general and presiding over teams of three pupils representing 20 countries and organisations. “The bright, engaged young people I met today not only understand the critical point we have reached in terms of tackling climate change but understand that it is they who will be experiencing the positive or negative impact of our actions today.” the Commissioner said. “If we continue to give them a voice and an opportunity to influence, it gives me hope that there is a better future for everyone in Wales and that we will be a nation that makes a positive contribution to global wellbeing.” Size of Wales is a unique initiative which is helping to protect an area of rainforest twice the size of Wales as part of a national response to climate change. MOCKCOP is a highlight in its education programme, which also offers free workshops and assemblies to schools across Wales. The event was sponsored by Jenny Rathbone AM.
  9

 9 : COP26_UK299
THE COP26 climate summit is due to end today, with negotiators scrambling to salvage a significant deal on reducing global carbon emissions. Cop26 president Alok Sharma yesterday warned “time is running out” in Glasgow for the 180 countries at the summit to agree to a deal. While the summit will officially end today, Boris Johnson indicated negotiations could stretch into the weekend as happened in previous years. China and the US, the globe’s two largest CO2 emitters, on Wednesday agreed to team up to phase out fossil fuels in an unexpected deal. Pundits have said the deal provides hope that China could come to the table and agree to a deal to strengthen commitments made in the 2015 Paris Climate Accord. Sharma said proposals over reducing fossil fuel subsidies and accelerating reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are still crucial stumbling blocks. “Whilst we have made progress we are not there yet on the most critical issues. There is still a lot more work to be done - time is running out,” he said. “As I speak my ministerial facilitators and negotiators are rolling up their sleeves and working hard to find solutions to some of the most intractable issues.” The draft text of the Cop26 deal notes “with serious concern” that existing global agreements are insufficient to keep global warming to 1.5 degrees. The draft, which sets out what negotiators hope will be the outcome of Cop26 , asks countries to “revisit and strengthen the 2030 targets in their nationally determined contributions, as necessary to align with the Paris Agreement temperature goal by the end of 2022”. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  10

 10 : COP22_UK55
November 14, 2016 MARRAKECH – Leo, the innovative baggage robot developed by air transport IT provider SITA, is in Marrakech for the COP22 climate talks taking place in the city from 7-18 November 2016. Leo, is being hosted by Royal Air Maroc, Moroccos national carrier. Leo will be on display in the main COP22 convention centre in Bab Ighli from 7-16 November before moving to Marrakech Manara Airport and Casablanca Mohammed V International Airport this week where the robot will assist delegates flying Royal Air Maroc to check-in their bags. SITAs baggage robot will remain in Morocco until November 27 where the national airline will conduct numerous airport trials using Leo. Abdelhamid Addou, Chairman & CEO of Royal Air Maroc, said: The smart use of new technologies is undoubtedly the key to improving the passenger experience while helping airlines better manage a growing number of travelers in a more sustainable way. This requires out-of-the-box thinking and Leo is exactly the sort of innovative exploration that will help airlines and airports manage the new challenges we as an industry will face in the next decade. Leo is a fully autonomous, self-propelling baggage robot that has the capacity to check in, print bag tags and transport up to two suitcases with a maximum weight of 32kg. It also has an obstacle avoidance capability and can navigate in a high-traffic environment such as an airport. Leo provides a glimpse into the future of baggage handling being explored by SITA Lab and is the first step to automating the baggage process from the moment passengers drop their bags to when they collect them. Using robotics and artificial intelligence, bags will be collected, checked in, transported and loaded onto the correct flight without ever having to enter the terminal building or be directly handled by anyone other than by the passengers themselves. Hani El-Assaad, SITA President, Middle East, India and Africa said: Through the innovative work of the SITA Lab we are able to tackle some of the key challenges that face airlines and airports today. Leo demonstrates that technologies such as robotics can help the air transport industry manage the growth in traffic in a more sustainable way while offering passengers an unencumbered journey through the airport and onto the aircraft. Leo comes to the assistance of passengers as they approach the terminal building. Touching Leos Scan&Fly bag drop interface opens the baggage compartment doors to allow passengers to place their bags inside. After the passengers have scanned their boarding passes, the tags are printed and can be attached to the bag. With the bags loaded and tagged, the compartment door closes and Leo displays the boarding gate and departure time. Leo then takes the bags directly to the baggage handling area where they are sorted and connected to the correct flight. About SITA SITA is the communications and IT solution provider that transforms air travel through technology for airlines, at airports and on aircraft. The companys portfolio covers everything from managed global communications and infrastructure services, to eAircraft, passenger management, baggage, self-service, airport and border management solutions. Owned 100% by more than 400 air transport industry members, SITA has a unique understanding of its needs and places a strong emphasis on technology innovation. Nearly every airline and airport in the world does business with SITA and its border management solutions are used by more than 30 governments. With a presence at more than 1,000 airports around the world and a customer service team of 2,000+ staff, SITA delivers unmatched service to more than 2,800 customers in more than 200 countries. In 2015, SITA had consolidated revenues of US$ 1.7 billion. SITAs subsidiaries and joint ventures include SITAONAIR, CHAMP Cargosystems and Aviareto. For further information go to HYPERLINK www.sita.aero
  11

 11 : COP24_UK148
Risk analysis: On 3-14 December, the ’ COP 24 ’ - the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change - will be organised in the centre of Katowice. Trucks have been banned from entering the proximity of the venue, the Spodek and International Conference Centre, particularly on a section of road DK79, comprising Aleja Rozdzienskiego and Chorzowska street, as well as nearby Aleja Korfantego and Katowicka streets. Further road closures in the area are expected, but disruptions will be mitigated by diversions. The police are expected to increase security controls, particularly checks on vehicles entering the city. Protests with attendance of up to a few thousand people are expected near the venue, but are likely to remain peaceful. £9 2018, IHS Markit Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.
  12

 12 : COP22_UK56
Vladimir Putinhassaid humans are not to blame for climate change-and that the melting of the ice in the Arctic could be used for Russia’s”economic ends”. One day after visiting the Franz Josef Land archipelago in the Arctic, the Russian President claimed icebergs had been melting for decades and that global warming was not mankind’s fault. The apparent reversal in Mr Putin’s attitude to climate changecameshortly after White House spokesman Sean Spicer announced that Donald Trump would decide by May whether the US will remain in the Paris Agreement. Read more Putin praises women for their beauty and for £lways being on time’ Speaking at an Arctic forum in thenorthern Russian city of Arkhangelsk, Mr Putinsaid: “The warminghad alreadystarted by the 1930s.”That’s when there were no such anthropological factors, such emissions, and the warming had already started.
“The issue is not stopping it. . . because that’s impossiblesince it could be tied to some global cycles on Earth or even of planetary significance. The issue is to somehow adapt to it.” Mr Putin reportedly quoted an Austrian explorer, who had “a photographic memory” andvisited the archipelago in the 1930s. Twenty years later the explorer was shown photographs from another expedition there and concluded that “there were fewer icebergs there”, Mr Putin reportedly said. While Finnish President Sauli Niinisto told the forum climate change was a
“serious threat” tothe Arctic, Mr Putin said it could bring “more favourableconditions for using this region for economic ends”. Read more China accuses Trump of ‘selfishness’ over climate change Earlier in the day, Mr Putin was shown a video of an ice-breaking tanker docking for the first time at Russia’s Arctic port of Sabetta to test a new route forships carrying oil and liquefied gas, according to CBS News. Energy firms are eager for the route to open in order to extract resources such as oil and gas. Mr Putin’s comments contrast with a speech he gave at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris in November 2015, whenhe said “climate change has become one of the most serious challenges facing humanity”. “Global warming iscausing more and more hurricanes, floods, drought, other abnormal phenomena and is also causing tangible economic damage, destroying, established human habitat,” he said at the time. “The quality of life of all people on the planet depends on solving the climate problem.”Russia’s efforts have slowed global warming by almost a year. We were able to nearly double our country’s GDP over the same period.” Previously, Mr Putinhassaid global warming was good for exposing natural resources and that warming by “two or three degrees” could mean Russians would no longer need fur coats. During his visit to the Arctic, the Russian President also wished good luck to the new chief of the US Environmental Protection Agency, Scot Pruitt, whose appointment was highly controversial given his track record of denying climate science. Last year, a report from theEnvironment Ministry found that Russia is warming twice as fast as the average for the rest of the world and warned aboutthe rise of floods and wildfires across the country.
  13

 13 : COP22_UK118
According to the latest statistics from the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), pneumonia and diarrhoea kill some 1.4 million children each year, mostly in middle and low-income countries, despite the fact that these illnesses are largely preventable through straightforward and cost-effective solutions. The findings are part of a report that was released today, One is Too Many: Ending Child Deaths from Pneumonia and Diarrhoea in Marrakech while world leaders meet for the UN climate conference known by the shorthand COP22 to discuss the ways in which environmental issues are negatively impacting children’s health. “We have seen clearly that air pollution linked to climate change is damaging the health and development of children by causing pneumonia and other respiratory infections,” UNICEF Deputy Executive Director Fatoumata Ndiaye said in a news release. Roughly one child dies every 35 seconds from pneumonia, making it the leading infectious killer of children under the age of five. Nearly one million children were its victims in 2015 - more than malaria, tuberculosis, measles, and AIDS combined. According to Ms. Ndiaye, the high rates in part have to do with the fact that some two billion children are living in areas where air pollution exceeds international guidelines. As a result, she says, many are falling ill and dying.
“World leaders meeting at COP22 can help to save children’s lives by committing to actions that will reduce air pollution linked to climate change and agreeing to investments in prevention and healthcare,” she said. Rates of diarrhoea in children are also related to climate change: as precipitation declines in certain areas, the reduced availability of safe water means more children are at risk of contracting diarrhoeal diseases and suffering impaired physical and cognitive growth, if not death. Since 2000, nearly 34 million children have died from pneumonia and diarrhoea. UNICEF estimates that a further 24 million will die by 2030 if further investments are not made in key prevention and treatment options. “These illnesses have such a disproportionately high impact on child mortality and are relatively inexpensive to treat,” noted Ms. Ndiaye. “Yet they continue to receive only a fraction of global health investment which makes absolutely zero sense. That’s why we’re calling for increased global funding for protective, preventive and treatment interventions that we know will work to save children’s lives.” According to the report that was released today, 80 per cent of childhood deaths linked to pneumonia and 70 per cent of those linked to diarrhoea occur during the first two years of life. 62 per cent of children under the age of five live in low and middle income countries but account for 90 per cent of child pneumonia and diarrhoea deaths worldwide. UNICEF urges that funding be targeted towards children’s general healthcare as well as for those groups who are particularly vulnerable to pneumonia and diarrhoea - i.e., those under the age of five and living in lower and middle income countries. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  14

 14 : COP25_UK190
MICHAEL Gove has declined to answer questions on who will take over as chair of a crucial climate event set to take place in Glasgow later this year. Speaking at a conference in London held by the environmental think tank Green Alliance, the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, pictured, refused to be drawn in on who would take over as president of November’s 2020 United Nations Climate Change Conference , otherwise known as COP26. Former minister Claire O’Neill was abruptly sacked from the role at the end of last month - but Gove said he is waiting, like everyone else, for the announcement expected later this week. Asked whether he himself would like the role, he said:
“I am very happy with the job that I have and there are many, many other people who could do the job of COP president better than I ever could.” READ MORE:~Nicola Sturgeon requests role for Scotland in COP summit planning A number of high-profile Tory figures, including David Cameron and William Hague, are said to have turned down the position. Gove also said that the UK Government needs to do more to tackle climate change, commenting that “even as we do celebrate what we’ve achieved, be in no doubt the Government recognises there’s so much more we need to do in order to genuinely demonstrate leadership”. “It is not enough to look at the trajectory in the past. We have to be more ambitious in the future.” He added: “One of the reasons we think it’s so important is not just because we’re hosting COP but also because we believe the UK has a moral responsibility to lead.” A member of the audience soon called him out, however, saying there was a need for more than “recognition of the need to act” which had already been made 20 years ago. READ MORE:~Prime Minister insists COP26 will be fantastic despite shambolic organisation At the same conference, Nicola Sturgeon told the audience that it is
“vital” that the future event is successful in the face of the urgent need for climate action. The First Minister said that the Scottish Government would work “closely and constructively” with the UK Government in order to deliver the summit. Asked about the handling of the event so far, she said she was “concerned” about O’Neill’s sacking, but hoped those concerns would be laid to rest upon the announcement of the new appointment to the role. She added:
“It’s vital that COP is a success. It’s a massive opportunity and we have a duty - and I take that duty as First Minister of Scotland very seriously - to do everything we can to make it a success because that’s certainly in Scotland’s interest, but it’s in the interest of the UK as a whole and most importantly in the interest of the planet.” She also highlighted to the conference that Scotland has world-leading targets to reach net zero by 2045 and had produced a budget that would help towards doing so.
  15

 15 : COP22_UK67
Africa Day: Moving from Commitment to Action with NDCs in Africa. Location: Africa Pavilion and UNFCCC Side Event, Blue Zone, COP22 , Marrakech What: The Africa Day at COP22 will be commemorated on Wednesday, 16 November, 2016 at the Africa Pavilion and UNFCCC side event. The day provides a platform that brings together African leaders and policymakers into a dialogue to chart a course regarding implementation of the Paris Agreement. Africa Day will therefore serve as an opportunity for the continent to discuss and showcase how it plans to sensitize, advocate for the ratification and roll out the implementation of the Paris Agreement. In addition, it will present a platform for supporting and coordinating the African initiatives for the implementation of the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). Where: Africa Pavilion and UNFCCC Side Event, Blue Zone, COP22 , Marrakech. When: Wednesday, 16 November 2016, 09:30 - 18:00 Who: H.E. Mrs. Tumusiime Rhoda Peace, AU Commissioner for Rural Economy and Agriculture (Moderator) H.E. Idriss Deby Itno, President of Chad and Chair of the African Union H.E. Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, President of Arab Republic of Egypt and Coordinator, Committee of African Heads of State and Government on Climate Change CAHOSCC) H.E. Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria H.E. Professor Alpha Conde, President of the Republic of Guinea and Africa Union Coordinator on Renewable Energy for the African continent Why: The main objective of the Africa Day is to provide opportunity to critically examine the implementation of the Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs) submitted by African countries as part of the Paris Agreement, as well as the African Renewable Energy Initiative
(AREI), and their implications for Africa’s development. More specifically, the Africa Day seeks to achieve the following objectives: Emphasize Africa’s priorities for the means of implementation of the INDCs in the context of the Paris Agreement; Review the implications and prospects for the implementation of the INDCs for Africa, including associated challenges and opportunities; Discuss the alignment of the INDCs with national development strategies that are inclusive and aligned to climate-resilient and low carbon transition; Have an open conversation on the rollout of the African Renewable Energy Initiative The Media is invited to cover Africa Day on Wednesday, 16 November 2016, 09:30 - 18:00 at African Pavilion and UNFCCC Side Event. Agenda of the event is attached. African Development Bank (AfDB) Faiza Ghozali, Senior Communication Officer - T.: + 225 20 26 19 34 / M.:
+212 (0) 653 612 685 / HYPERLINK mailto:f.ghozali@afdb.org f.ghozali@afdb.org Sonia Borrini, Communication Officer - T.: +225 20 26 55 62 / M.: +212 (0) 653 710 103 / HYPERLINK mailto:s.borrini@afdb.org s.borrini@afdb.org Websites: HYPERLINK www.afdb.org/fr/ cop22 or ~ HYPERLINK www.afdb.org African Union Commission (AUC) Molalet Tsedeke, Communication Officer - M.: +212-633375210 HYPERLINK mailto:/molalett@africa-union.org /molalett@africa-union.org Hailu Wudineh, AU-MESA Communication Officer - M +251911671683/ HYPERLINK mailto:hailu.wudineh@hd-mesa.org hailu.wudineh@hd-mesa.org Ntsiuoa Sekete, PAP Senior Media and Communications Officer - M +27726589295/ HYPERLINK mailto:ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org Websites: ~ HYPERLINK www.au.int or ~ HYPERLINK www.au.int/ cop22 Jacqueline Chenje, Communication Officer, African Climate Policy Center - M.: +212 653 727 038 / HYPERLINK mailto:jchenje@uneca.org jchenje@uneca.org Houda Filali-Ansary, Communication Officer, Office for North Africa - M.: +212 673 734 462 / HYPERLINK mailto:hfilali-ansary@uneca.org hfilali-ansary@uneca.org Websites: ~ HYPERLINK www.uneca.org or ~ HYPERLINK www.climdev-africa.org NEPAD Teko Nhlapo, Communication & Advocacy Officer - M.: +27 83 596 8752 / HYPERLINK mailto:Tekoh@nepad.org Tekoh@nepad.org Website: ~ HYPERLINK www.nepad.org [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  16

 16 : COP23_UK263
Global carbon emissions are on the rise again in 2017 after three years of little-to-no growth, according to researchers at the University of East Anglia and the Global Carbon Project. It was previously hoped that emissions might soon reach their peak after three stable years, so the new projection for 2017 is an unwelcome message for policy makers and delegates at the UN Climate Change Conference ( COP 23 ) in Bonn this week. The research, published today simultaneously in the journals Nature Climate Change, Earth System Science Data Discussions and Environmental Research Letters, reveals that global emissions from all human activities will reach 41 billion tonnes in 2017, following a projected 2% rise in burning fossil fuels. The figures point to China as the main cause of the renewed growth in fossil emissions - with a projected growth of 3.5%. CO2 emissions are expected to decline by 0.4% in the US and 0.2% in the EU, smaller declines than during the previous decade. Increases in coal use in China and the US are expected this year, reversing their decreases since 2013. Lead researcher Prof Corinne Le Quere, director of the Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research at UEA, said: ‘Global CO2 emissions appear to be going up strongly once again after a three year stable period. This is very disappointing. ’With global CO2 emissions from human activities estimated at 41 billion tonnes for 2017, time is running out on our ability to keep warming well below 2C let alone 1.5C. ’This year we have seen how climate change can amplify the impacts of hurricanes with more intense rainfall, higher sea levels and warmer ocean conditions favouring more powerful storms. This is a window into the future. We need to reach a peak in global emissions in the next few years and drive emissions down rapidly afterwards to address climate change and limit its impacts.’ Key findings: In 2017, CO2 emissions from fossil fuels and industry are projected to grow by 2% (0.8% to 3%). This follows three years of nearly no growth (2014-2016). (GDP to rise 3.6% according to IMF figures). Global CO2 emissions from all human activities are set to reach 41 billion tonnes (41 Gt CO2) by the end of 2017. Meanwhile emissions from fossil fuels are set to reach 37 Gt CO2 - a record high. China’s emissions are projected to grow by 3.5% (0.7% to 5.4%), driven by a rise in coal consumption (GDP up 6.8%). India’s emissions are projected to grow by just 2% (0.2% to 3.8%) - down from over 6% per year during the last decade (GDP up 6.7%). US emissions are projected to decline by
-0.4%(-2.7% to +1.9%), with coal consumption projected to rise slightly (GDP up 2.2%). EU emissions are tentatively projected to decline -0.2% (-2% to +1.6%), a smaller decline than the previous decade (GDP up 2.3%). CO2 emissions decreased in the presence of growing economic activity in 22 countries representing 20% of global emissions. Renewable energy has increased rapidly at 14% per year over the last five years - albeit from a very low base. Atmospheric CO2 concentration reached 403 parts per million in 2016, and is expected to increase by 2.5 ppm in 2017. Dr Glen Peters of the CICERO Center for International Climate Research in Oslo who led one of the studies said: ‘The return to growth in global emissions in 2017 is largely due to growth in Chinese emissions, projected to grow by 3.5% in 2017 after two years with declining emissions. The use of coal, the main fuel source in China, may rise by 3% due to stronger growth in industrial production and lower hydro-power generation due to less rainfall.’ ‘The growth in 2017 emissions is unwelcome news, but it is too early to say whether it is a one-off event on a way to a global peak in emissions, or the start of a new period with upward pressure on global emissions growth.’ The team flags that persistent uncertainties exist in our ability to estimate recent changes in emissions, particularly when there are unexpected changes as in the last few years. ‘Even though we may detect a change in emission trend early, it may take as much as 10 years to confidently and independently verify a sustained change in emissions using measurements of atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide,’ said Dr Peters. ‘Policy makers in Bonn are preparing for the Global Stocktake under the Paris Agreement, that will start in 2018 and occur every five years, and this puts immense pressure on the scientific community to develop methods and perform measurements that can truly verify changes in emissions within this five-yearly cycle,’ said Prof Le Quere. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  17

 17 : COP26_UK210
They are generous hosts who saved their guests thousands while helping to tackle the climate crisis. Organisers of a “homestay” network have praised the spirit of HYPERLINK the Glaswegians who put up almost 1,700 activists -
half for free - during the Cop26 conference. The network sprang into action to recruit residents to house delegates who could not otherwise afford to stay in Glasgow for the 13-day gathering of world leaders and officials. Almost 40,000 delegates registered to attend. The costs of hotels and rented accommodation soared, with some charging thousands over the normal rate. A report published today by the network said that more than 1,200 residents joined, inviting activists from 127 countries to stay. One third of the activists said they could not have attended the conference without help. Collectively they had 12,300 one-night stays from October 31 to November 12. Those who insisted on paying a small sum to their hosts - an average of £34.50 per night - saved more than £330,000. However, the environmental impact of the network was also clear, the report said. When contrasting the higher carbon and water costs from staying in hotels compared with in homes, the network saved 127,000kg of CO emissions and 2.5 million litres of water. ” HYPERLINK Prices for accommodation in Glasgow skyrocketed as private landlords and hotels took advantage,” the report said. “This made it almost impossible for activists to find a place to stay, especially those from the least privileged countries most affected by climate change.” The network of groups - Human Hotels, Stop the Climate Chaos and the Cop26 Alliance - created the opportunity in which “locals made their spare rooms, couches or apartments available. So instead of putting money towards global hotel chains and rental management companies, it stayed within the community of people who share the same values,” it added. Kat Jones, Cop26 HYPERLINK Cop26 .” Martin Rosengaard, of the Human Hotels group that began at a previous Cop in Copenhagen in 2009, said the Glasgow hosts deserved a big round of applause. “Because of their generosity, 69 per cent of guests felt more motivated to take part in climate action,” he said. More than 350 guests were surveyed. One wrote: “Excellent food, very good company, and an essential part of being able to come. Eleven out of ten.” Half of the hosts felt like they had made a contribution to tackling climate change. Three quarters said they felt more motivated for environmental action. One said: “Glasgow was full of wonderful people - a model for the world if only the leaders act - and the happiness was palpable in our house. We were all re-energised.” Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  18

 18 : COP23_UK79
A POPULAR holiday destination for Britons could be gone by the end of the century as it continues to sink due to rising sea levels, as world leaders are called to act at the COP23 conference. Getty The Maldives is rapidly sinking and could be gone in the next 80 years The Pacific Islands contain some of the famous idyllic holiday destinations chosen by Britons for sun and luxury,~ With sea levels rising dramatically in the past few decades, the islands will suffer the most as they eventually become entirely submerged. Tuvalu could be uninhabitable by 2050, with some islands such as Kiribati being completely gone by 2100. The Pacific island nations have urged leaders around the world to act after the COP23 conference in Germany discussed climate change and implementing the 2015 Paris agreement on global warming. The COP23 The Maldives is a famous destination for honeymooners and families, and this is also at risk of completely disappearing. With the lowest elevation in the world and just an average height of four feet above sea level, this too could be gone in the next century. The Solomon Islands have also been affected, with five of them already having completely sunk. New Zealand has become the first nation to create a new visa category for people who live on the islands, and are a product of island displacement. Getty Pacific Islands has warned that many islands are sinking, threatening the homes of many Professor Tim Flannery, a climate change expert at La Trobe University, told news.com.au: “It’s very concerning times, particularly if you live in a small island nation.”Many of those nations are already making agreements to deal with the problem as it develops.” He explained further: “As sea water rises it starts to penetrate the freshwater on the land, that’s the most immediate threat for a lot of the island.”Beach and coastal erosion and flooding is another threat. With these two factors it’s entirely possible within the next 30 years some islands could be rendered uninhabitable.” Getty The Maldives is a popular destination for honeymooners, but may not be around in the next decade They aren’t the only tourist destinations that could disappear within 50 years.~ Rising sea levels are also occurring due to glaciers melting as the planet warms up. The famous Columbia Glacier in Alaska is at risk due to the speed in which it is melting. Related articles UK weather: 2017 could be one of top three HOTTEST years ever recorded Great Barrier Reef DYING: Corals among 62 natural wonders under threat Earth under THREAT: Humans must do THIS to save the planet
  19

 19 : COP24_UK292
NAIROBI, Kenya – The World Bank Group today made several announcements to scale up support for both climate adaptation and mitigation in Africa during the third One Planet Summit. The summit is being convened by President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya, President Emmanuel Macron of France, Interim President of the World Bank Group, Kristalina Georgieva, and Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations, Amina Mohammed. The World Bank Group is stepping up its climate support for Africa. With continued strong support for IDA, our fund for the world’s poorest countries, this will provide $ 22.5 billion for Africa for climate adaptation and mitigation for the five years from 2021-2025. This more than doubles the commitment to climate-related projects over the last five years. The funding is part of the Bank Group’s 2025 Targets to Step Up Climate Action, launched in December 2018 during the UN’s COP24 in Poland. It will help African countries manage the risks of a changing climate while unlocking new investment opportunities. IFC and MIGA, the Group’s private sector arms, will also continue to ambitiously grow their climate activities in Africa. Recognizing that a number of countries in Africa are among the most vulnerable to global climate shocks and stresses, and in line with these new climate financing commitments and future direction of our Africa Climate Business Plan, more than half of the $ 22.5bn financing will be devoted to supporting adaptation and resilience in Africa. This will amount to about $ 12-$ 12.5 billion over five years from 2021-2025. This year, for example, the World Bank will provide the government of Ethiopia with a results-based support program for adaptation and resilience, the largest done by the World Bank ever in Africa. The new operation, which is currently under preparation, will provide $ 500 million for results in improved watershed management and land administration systems. “People across Africa are already experiencing the growing impacts of climate change. This region is particularly vulnerable to increasing floods, droughts and destructive storms,” said Interim President of the World Bank Group, Kristalina Georgieva. “We have to do more and do it faster, or millions of people could be plunged into poverty. That’s why the World Bank is providing more money to build resilience and help communities cope with the effects of climate change in Africa.” In addition, the World Bank, will carry out intensive Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) engagements with Rwanda and Kenya, under the framework of the NDC Partnership, and with generous support from Germany’s BMZ. The engagements will help accelerate the implementation of, and raise the level of ambition for, their NDCs by supporting systematic mainstreaming and institutionalization of climate adaptation and mitigation across and within key development sectors and governance levels. The World Bank - as trustee of the Carbon Initiative for Development (Ci-Dev) trust fund - and Kenya Tea Development Agency Power Company Ltd. (KTDA Power) signed an Emission Reductions Purchase Agreement
(ERPA). The contract purchases carbon credits from small hydropower plants, providing power to 350,000 smallholder tea farmers and 39 of their regional tea factories in Kenya. The new ERPA brings the Ci-Dev portfolio to more than $ 73 million in implementation. IFC syndicated a loan for KTDA, and the carbon revenues from Ci-Dev helped increase the project’s debt service coverage ratio and improved the bankability of the project. KTDA is a long-standing private sector partner of IFC. In addition to the hydropower project, IFC invested in a Mombasa warehouse project and supported KTDA with various advisory activities such as financial literacy training for farmers, soil testing for productivity improvement and as development of a wood sourcing strategy among others. IFC was also named Green Bond Development Bank of 2018 at this year’s Green Bond Pioneer Awards. IFC was awarded this premier recognition for its global leadership, best practice, and innovation in green finance for products such as the inaugural Forests Bond in Kenya, which was a first-of-its kind solution to build capital markets infrastructure to catalyze funding into forest protection. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of The World Bank Group. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  20

 20 : COP26_UK162
HYPERLINK - Sharma to urge countries to deliver on the commitments made in the historic Glasgow Climate Pact - The COP President will say it is in the self-interest of countries to work together on climate change - Speech at
Chatham House in London will outline priorities for the UK’s COP Presidency year Countries need to work together to deliver on the promises made in Glasgow COP26 President, Alok Sharma, will say today (Monday 24th January). In his first major speech since COP26 , Sharma will reflect on the commitments secured at COP26 and the historic Glasgow Climate Pact signed by almost 200 countries at the summit last year. He will set out his agenda to turn ambition into action for the rest of the UK’s Presidency this year, outlining that whilst the summit has concluded, the world must maintain the urgency and the energy to honour the promises made, as we approach COP27 in Sharm-El Sheikh in November. Today’s speech will outline the UK’s priorities to deliver on the Glasgow Climate Pact during its COP Presidency year: - Ensuring promises on emissions reductions are kept to keep 1.5 degrees alive. That every country honours the commitment in the Glasgow Climate Pact to strengthen their climate change targets to align with the Paris temperature goal as necessary in 2022, as well as for delivering on their net zero commitments and 2030 emissions reduction targets, particularly through policies to end coal power, halt deforestation and transition to clean vehicles - Delivering for climate vulnerable countries by ensuring commitments on adaptation and loss and damage are honoured. Working with donors to make progress towards doubling adaptation finance by 2025 and developing a clear proposal and funding for the Santiago Network by COP27 - Get finance flowing. The UK through the COP Presidency will help ensure countries, international financial institutions and private financial institutions deliver on the commitments they have made to meet the $ 100bn goal. And we will aim to increase public-private partnerships to support climate action, building on the South African Just Energy Transition Partnership. We will support Parties to make progress on the post-2025 climate finance goal - Working together and continuing to be an inclusive Presidency. Pushing for further action across critical sectors and turning promises into clear delivery plans through established forums and international councils. The UK through the COP Presidency will work hand-in-hand with the COP27 President Egypt, COP28 President UAE, our international partners, business, youth and civil society, to deliver our priorities and keep climate at the top of the international agenda COP President Alok Sharma is expected to say: “At COP26”The Glasgow Climate Pact was a product of international cooperation and a practical demonstration of Global Britain in action. “There is no doubt that the commitments we secured at COP26 were historic. Yet at the moment they are just words on a page. And unless we honour the promises made, to turn the commitments in the Glasgow Climate Pact into action, they will wither on the vine. We will have mitigated no risks. Seized no opportunities. We will have fractured the trust built between nations. And 1.5 degrees will slip from our grasp.”So my absolute focus for the UK Presidency year is delivery.” Mr Sharma recently visited both COP27 President Egypt, and COP28 President UAE, to underline the importance of building strong partnerships with the next two hosts for the summit. This week, he will meet the UNFCCC to discuss the implementation of the measures agreed with Glasgow. He will also address the Major Economies Forum and continue to ramp up pressure on the rich donor nations to support climate vulnerable countries. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com )) Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  21

 21 : COP21_UK96
Renault-Nissan Alliance is installing 90 new charge spots for electric vehicles in and around Paris for the COP21 global summit on climate change in Paris. The installation is being undertaken in partnership with French energy provider EDF, Schneider Electric, A’e9roports de Paris, Paris City Council and SNCF, France’s national railway company. The charging stations, several of which will be donated by Schneider Electric, will refuel 200 EVs serving as VIP shuttles for negotiators, delegates and media attending the conference. More than 20,000 UN participants from 195 countries are expected to attend the 21st~annual Conference of Parties known as COP21 - from 30 November to 11 December. ” COP21 is a call to action to reduce the impact of climate change - including global warming resulting from personal transportation,” said Renault-Nissan chairman and CEO Carlos Ghosn. “Electric vehicles are the only existing, practical and affordable transportation solution to our planet’s environmental challenges and they are available today.”Expanding the EV infrastructure is mandatory for any city or state that’s serious about environmental stewardship.” The quick and standard EV charging stations will use renewable and low-carbon electricity from EDF, enabling the Renault-Nissan fleet to cover more than 400,000 km in two weeks. The quick charging stations will recharge EVs from 0% to 80% capacity in about 30min. EVs consume any form of electricity used in the power grid, including hydropower, solar and wind energy.
  22

 22 : COP24_UK107
TAIPEI - Delta, a global provider of power and thermal management solutions, announced today it has been recognized as a Taiwan Top 20 global brand for the 8th consecutive year by the prominent Best Taiwan Global Brands survey. The assessment determined that Delta’s brand value over the past year increased 6% to USD266 million, thus, achieving the highest growth rate within the Taiwanese industrial brand segment. The uniqueness of Delta’s brand, which entails a seamless integration of its business model and corporate social responsibility, continues to thrive through the development of innovative solutions that are cementing the creation of sustainable cities. In coming days, Delta will host an UN official side event and participate in the Sustainable Innovation Forum
(SIF), both during COP24 in Katowice, Poland, to share its experiences in cultivating sustainable development through technology innovation with global stakeholders. At the Taiwan Top 20 Global Brands awards ceremony, Ms. Shan-Shan Guo, Delta’s chief brand officer and executive director of the Delta Electronics Foundation, said,
‘Delta’s commitment to protect the environment from further global warming by enhancing its core competence in high-efficiency power electronics through innovation remains firm. By fostering the backbones of sustainable cities, Delta contributes significantly to the global efforts against carbon emissions. This is not only an integral part of our brand promise, but also a core of our unique corporate citizenship. At COP24 , the Delta Electronics Foundation will set the agenda by hosting a side event that will gather notable stakeholders, such as, the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group, the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy (ACEEE) and the Japan-based Renewable Energy Institute (REI), to advance ideas that shall accelerate the transition towards energy resilience.’ Mr. Victor Cheng, Delta’s senior vice-president and general manager of its Information Communication Technology Business Group (ICTBG), who will represent the company at the SIF 2019, highlighted, ‘Innovative technology is not only the cornerstone of Delta’s brand, but also the key to containing further global warming within 1.5-degreeC. Delta has been advancing next-generation solutions that are lowering the carbon footprint of some of the world’s most energy-intensive areas, such as buildings and transportation. Our building automation solutions enable smart green buildings, while our automotive electronics and EV charging infrastructure support the nascent e-mobility revolution. Under the trend of distributed energy resources, we also provide vehicle-to-home/vehicle-to-grid (V2H/V2G) EV chargers, and energy storage technology to facilitate low-carbon transformation.’ COP24 is the most relevant UN Climate Change Conference since 2015 (COP21) as it has been convened to agree on the mechanisms that will not only facilitate the execution of the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC), which are the vehicles to achieve the objective of the Paris Agreement
(containing the global temperature rise within 2-degreeC), but even seek to reach a more ambitious 1.5-degreeC target. Delta again leads the organization of an official side event during the COP, bringing together the influential think tank Renewable Energy Institute; the institution behind the LEED green building certification, the USGBC; the energy efficiency policy think tank ACEEE and the sustainable cities initiative C40. Together they will exchange views on how to hasten the energy transition necessary to realize a sustainable future for mankind. The
‘Best Taiwan Global Brands’ survey is organized by the Industrial Development Bureau and executed by Interbrand to assess the value of Taiwan’s top global brands. By being selected into this prestigious assessment over the past 8 consecutive years, Delta proves its superior environment, governance and social (ESG) performance. Contact: Tel:
+886-2-8797-2088 Email: mailto:news@deltaww.com news@deltaww.com [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  23

 23 : COP26_UK45
None of the pledges on climate action made at HYPERLINK Cop26 will matter unless countries deliver on them, HYPERLINK Alok Sharma has warned. Speaking at a HYPERLINK Chatham House event in London on Monday, the Cop26 President said countries had come together, despite an otherwise fractured world, at UN climate talks in HYPERLINK Glasgow last year to secure agreement on raising their climate ambition and phasing down coal. But Mr Sharma, who continues in his role as president until he hands over to Egypt for the Cop27 talks in November this year, acknowledged that the Glasgow summit’s success was “fragile”. He said he was focused on pushing for delivery on raising efforts to cut emissions, helping countries adapt to climate extremes, delivering on finance for poorer nations and pushing for further action in sectors such as coal. Through the Glasgow Climate Pact signed in November, 197 countries agreed to strengthen their emissions-cutting targets for 2030 by the end of next year in an attempt to limit global warming climbing above 1.5C. Mr Sharma told the Chatham House audience that “collective self-interest” had driven agreement, with leaders recognising that the science of climate change was clear, that inaction or delayed action would create immense risks and costs and there was an economic dividend to tackling the crisis. There is no doubt that the commitments we secured at Cop26 were historic Alok Sharma, Cop26 “Net zero is one of the clearest economic trends there has ever been,” he said, adding that “clean is competitive” and the global race to supply technologies and solutions for the net zero world was on. “The train is pulling out of the station and countries and companies that want to remain competitive need to leap on now,” he urged. He said the HYPERLINK G20 group of leading nations, which are responsible for 80% of global emissions, were his personal priority as part of efforts to urge all countries to revisit and strengthen their plans to cut emissions by 2030. And he said: “There is no doubt that the commitments we secured at Cop26 were historic.”Yet at the moment they are just words on a page. “We will have fractured the trust built between nations.”And 1.5C will slip from our grasp. “So my absolute focus for the UK Presidency year is delivery.” In a question and answer session after his speech, Mr Sharma disagreed with suggestions the talks in Glasgow had been a failure, pointing to how almost 200 countries had agreed to the pact despite conflicts around the world. He said the conference had succeeded on delivering in areas that many people had not thought could be achieved, including getting all countries to agree to come back by the end of 2022 with enhanced emissions cuts. But he said: “None of that will matter unless these commitments are turned into action. In reference to comments he made in the aftermath of the talks that 1.5C was alive, but its pulse was weak, he added:”It was a fragile win. “That heartbeat of 1.5C will only be strengthened if people continue, if countries continue to deliver.” Read More HYPERLINK Cop26 news live: 1bn ‘face dangerous heat if warming hits 2C’ HYPERLINK Everything to look out for in week two at HYPERLINK Cop26 HYPERLINK Fossil fuel lobbyists outnumber any country delegation at HYPERLINK Cop26 HYPERLINK Cop26 President Alok Sharma to urge countries to act on Glasgow agreement HYPERLINK Vigil for girl who died from chronic asthma brought on by London’s polluted air HYPERLINK Government ‘must be open with public’ about net zero strategy Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  24

 24 : COP21_UK305
India, one of the world’ s largest coal users, will cut back on its investments in the fuel if the new climate deal due to be struck next week in Paris delivers more money to help it shift to cleaner sources of energy such as solar power, a senior negotiator said on Wednesday. We’ ve made it very clear that solar and wind is our first commitment, said Ajay Mathur, director general of India’ s Bureau of Energy Efficiency, at the Paris talks, HYPERLINK known as COP21 . Hydro, nuclear, all of these non-carbon sources are what we will develop to the largest extent we can, he told reporters. But it has to be affordable. He was speaking as campaigners from a fossil fuel divestment movement said the number of investors shunning coal, gas and oil has surged ahead of the Paris conference. At least 500 institutions with more than $3.4tn in assets have pledged to avoid or cut holdings in fossil fuels, said activist groups 350.org and Divest-Invest. That represents a big jump from a year ago, when 181 institutions representing about $50bn in assets were committed to such a step, they said. A spate of city councils, banks, pension funds, churches and universities have pledged to cut back or shun coal investments this year. One of the most striking commitments came last month when Allianz, the German insurance group, said it would pull more than € 4bn ($4.3bn) from companies with coal businesses. Earlier this year, the Norwegian parliament decided the country’ s $857bn sovereign wealth fund should withdraw from any company in which coal represents more than 30 per cent of the business. Both moves came in the wake of a divestment campaign that began on US college campuses more than two years ago in an effort to make fossil fuel holdings as unpopular as tobacco or investments in apartheid-era South Africa. Churches and wealthy individuals with an interest in climate change then joined, including the heirs to the Rockefeller oil fortune. The momentum in this divestment campaign is accelerating day by day, Stephen Heintz, president of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, told journalists at the Paris climate conference on Wednesday. There is a moral imperative to save the planet and to do so we need to end the fossil fuel era now, he said. Benjamin Sporton, chief executive of the World Coal Association said that although the campaigners’ multi-trillion dollar headline figures seemed large, a lot of the institutions and funds with these assets did not currently have coal holdings and the amount of money actually being pulled out of coal was relatively small. While there are companies and funds saying they want to get out of coal, there are plenty of others that are remaining invested, he told the Financial Times. This was especially the case in South East Asia and in large countries such as India, where governments are planning to continue using coal for electricity. Mr Sporton said he hoped the Paris climate talks would help drive the use of technology that allows coal to be burnt more efficiently and cleanly, a chief aim of his members. Coal companies have borne the brunt of the divestment push because coal produces more carbon emissions when burnt than other fossil fuels such as natural gas. But it remains an abundant and cheap source of energy in many developing countries and is the biggest source of electricity globally, accounting for a 41 per cent share of the world’ s electricity, according to the International Energy Agency. That global share is expected to fall to just over 30 per cent by 2030, the agency says, as fast-growing renewable energy sources supply a larger proportion of electricity. However, divestments have not been the only feature of this year’ s assault on coal. Banks have made public their refusal to fund some coal investments. In Australia, where India’ s Adani group wants to build the country’ s largest proposed coal project, Standard Chartered has said it will no longer be involved in the increasingly controversial development. Banks including Deutsche and HSBC had already steered clear. And multilateral commitments to the coal industry have been reined in. Last month member states of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development agreed limits on export subsidies for coal-fired power stations, following unilateral initiatives to curb export credits by countries including the UK and US. But divestment has its critics. Anne Stausboll, chief executive of Calpers, the California state pension system, has called lobbying for divestment flawed and said it is more constructive to engage with companies where the fund invests. However California approved a divestment law in October. Calpers will evaluate divestment as outlined in the bill , the fund said. As of June it had $57m invested in 27 thermal coal companies. Listen to the HYPERLINK World Weekly podcast
  25

 25 : COP24_UK181
The president of Nigeria was forced last night to declare that he had not died and been replaced by a Sudanese imposter. Muhammadu Buhari - who is seeking re-election in Nigeria’s general election in February - spent five months in Britain last year receiving treatment for an undisclosed but serious medical condition. Theories have subsequently spread across social media that the country’s leader is not Mr Buhari but a foreign imposter named Jubril. The president branded the rumours “ignorant” and “irreligious” yesterday while speaking to Nigerians in a town hall meeting in Poland, where he is attending the UN COP24 climate summit in Katowice. He said: “It’s the real me, I assure you. I will soon celebrate my 76th birthday and I will still go strong.”A lot of people hoped that I died during my ill health. Some even reached out to the vice president to consider them to be his deputy because they assumed I was dead.” He said he felt sorry that his deputy had been forced to deal with the awkward situation, which he said left the vice-president feeling “embarrassed”. The Nigerian leader’s remarks were later circulated in an email entitled “It’s the real me, President Buhari responds to cloning allegation”. The rumours emerged across social media a month after the President returned to Nigeria from the UK in August 2017. No evidence has been presented to verify the rumours but videos making the claim have been circulated thousands of times on Facebook and YouTube. Speculation mounted over Mr Buhari’s health after he asked the Nigerian parliament for extended medical leave in February 2017 to await results of a medical check-up in the UK. He eventually returned to Nigeria after an absence of 51 days. However, he travelled to the UK once again for further medical tests in May 2017, and only returned to Nigeria in August, 104 days later. Mr Buhari has been president since 2015 and previously served as head of state between 1983 and 1985.
  26

 26 : COP26_UK315
HYPERLINK Greta Thunberg will speak to tens thousands of climate campaigners at a rally in HYPERLINK Glasgow as the city hosts HYPERLINK Cop26 . The Swedish activist has been confirmed as one of the speakers at the Cop26 Coalition’s Global Day for Climate Justice rally. She will join Mitzi Jonelle Tan from the Philippines Vanessa Nakate from Uganda and Scottish activist Darren McGarvey, also known as rapper Loki, in addressing the rally on Saturday November 6 - the middle weekend of the two-week international climate conference. Only we can imagine and build the future that works for all of us Sarah Fleming, Cop26 Coalition The coalition wants governments to commit to cutting emissions and implementing globally just solutions that limit global temperature rise to no more than 1.5 degrees - including calling for zero carbon, not just net zero. Organisers expects simultaneous mobilisations in more than 50 places across the UK and around 75 countries worldwide. Sarah Fleming of the Cop26 Coalition said: “Amongst all the rhetoric and empty promises, it is clear that justice won’t be handed to us by world leaders or delivered by corporations.”Only we can imagine and build the future that works for all of us. “The solutions that we desperately need to survive the climate crisis, and in doing so build a more just and fair world, can only be brought about through making our voices heard together.” She added: “That’s why we’re bringing together everyone from Glasgow communities to indigenous peoples, from farmers to health workers to families, to take to the streets across the world and demand climate justice at Cop26 .” Organisers hope striking council workers will join the marchers as they head from Kelvingrove Park to Glasgow Green. In 2 weeks, world leaders will meet at the global climate talks HYPERLINK src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw # COP26 to discuss our future. Wherever you are in the world, join us in bringing HYPERLINK src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw #ClimateJustice to COP26.6 Nov -Day of Action: HYPERLINK HYPERLINK HYPERLINK pic.twitter.com/p786JnyWp9 COP26 Coalition (@ COP26 _Coalition) HYPERLINK October 21, 2021 The demonstrators will gather at 11.30am in Kelvingrove Park. Representatives from Black Lives Matter Scotland, the Stop Cambo campaign - calling for an end to further oil prospecting 125 miles north-west of Shetland, Unison, and the Anti-Fracking Lancashire Nanas will speak from the Fire Brigade Union’s fire engine. A series of campaign groups including activists from Extinction Rebellion, Climate Justice, Not False Solutions and Workers and Trade Unions will form the backbone of the demonstration, which is expected to leave the park at midday. The march will be met by smaller marches from Glasgow Southside and groups of cyclists from across Scotland ahead of the rally at Glasgow Green from 3pm. The Cop26 Coalition said that public health and safety during the ongoing pandemic were a primary concern and they are “fighting for climate justice at Cop against the backdrop of global vaccine inequality” and a need to keep everyone in our communities - both in Glasgow and abroad - safe. More than 10,000 police officers a day are expected to be on the streets during Cop26 . Deputy Chief Constable Will Kerr said detailed planning has been under way for more than a year and Police Scotland is well prepared for the unique challenges presented by Cop26 . HYPERLINK Rishi Vs Boris: inside the HYPERLINK COP26 eco war HYPERLINK Greta Thunberg invites striking workers to join her at Glasgow protest HYPERLINK COP26 : London losing to Europe on green finance Language: ~ENGLISH
  27

 27 : COP25_UK230
Designed to be ‘Good for You, Good for the Planet and Good for Farmers’, IFAD’s new podcast series raises awareness on the challenges smallholder farmers face, highlighting the need to invest more in solutions focused on women and young people, environmental protection and better nutrition in the context of a changing climate. Farms. Food. Future. Features interviews with leading experts, partners and donors, celebrities and, of course, the farmers themselves. It promotes the power of smallholder farmers as a force for change. Farms. Food. Future. Captures IFAD’s innovative work across the developing world which ensures food security and a sustainable future for millions of rural farmers. Tune into the first episode for a discussion on why the COP25 negotiations in Madrid are important for farmers, with IFAD’s climate change expert Romina Cavitassi. Michelin-starred Italian chef Cristina Bowerman speaks about her passion for cooking and why she believes farmers are well-placed to save the planet. Also featured is an award-winning project in Malawi, where women are leading the way to create a thriving farming sector against the backdrop of increasingly severe weather. And there is fresh news from the Himalayas, where new climate change adaptation techniques in Bhutan are helping farmers sustainably improve their family’s food security. An additional interview on the importance of COP25 for smallholder farmers is available in French, featuring IFAD climate change expert Sebastian Subsol. Subscribe via ITunes, Spotify and other major podcast platforms. Available in English, with additional French and Spanish interviews on the IFAD website. For more information go to HYPERLINK www.ifad.org/podcast HYPERLINK mailto:podcast@ifad.org podcast@ifad.org IFAD invests in rural people, empowering them to reduce poverty, increase food security, improve nutrition and strengthen resilience. Since 1978, we have provided US$ 21.5 billion in grants and low-interest loans to projects that have reached about 491 million people. IFAD is an international financial institution and a United Nations specialized agency based in Rome - the United Nations’ food and agriculture hub. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( ~ HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  28

 28 : COP23_UK153
Prime Minister and World Bank Vice President sign agreement. The government of Fiji and the World Bank Group signed an agreement today that will support deepened cooperation through a larger, more established presence in Suva, which will act as a hub for the development bank’s operations across the South Pacific The larger World Bank Group presence in Suva will facilitate greater support for projects both in Fiji and the region, with more technical staff with expertise in macroeconomic policy, public sector management, maritime transport, aviation, information communications and technology, and disaster resilience. Hon. Prime Minister Rear Admiral J.V. Bainimarama and World Bank Vice President for East Asia and Pacific, Victoria Kwakwa, attended the signing ceremony ‘Today, with the execution of the Establishment Agreement, we officially welcome the World Bank Group to Fiji,’ said Prime Minister Bainimarama. ‘Our relationship with the World Bank Group is growing and your presence in Fiji will not only benefit Fiji but all Pacific countries, as together there are many opportunities for the development of the Pacific Region.’ ‘An enhanced presence in Suva will enable us to better deliver in Fiji and the Pacific and increase our contribution to the region’s development in a variety of sectors, from fisheries to climate change,’ said Kwakwa. The establishment agreement also includes a potentially larger presence for the International Finance Corporation
(IFC), a member of the World Bank Group and the largest global development institution focused on the private sector in emerging markets. ‘Entrepreneurship and private sector dynamism is an important engine of economic growth. IFC looks forward to deepening our engagement with the government on supporting private sector development to achieve more inclusive growth,’ said IFC Director for East Asia and the Pacific, Vivek Pathak, who was represented at the ceremony by IFC Country Manager for the Pacific, Tom Jacobs. Kwakwa also met with Attorney General and Minister for Economy, Hon. Aiyaz Sayed-Khaiyum, to discuss the increased World Bank Group presence in Suva, as well as Fiji’s presidency of October’s COP23 meeting in Bonn, Germany. Kwakwa’s visit to Fiji comes ahead of the 48th Pacific Islands Forum Leaders’ Meeting in Apia, Samoa, where she will meet with heads of state and development partners, and lead the launch of the World Bank’s flagship report for the region Pacific Possible, which has identified the key transformational opportunities and risks for the region until 2040. The Vice President’s travel through the region also includes a visit to Kiribati on Thursday to meet with government officials and representatives of non-governmental organizations, and to visit projects supported by the World Bank. Contacts World Bank in Suva +61 433 028 405 HYPERLINK mailto:bbrighouse@worldbank.org bbrighouse@worldbank.org IFC in Sydney Sam Mattila +61 434 567 673 HYPERLINK mailto:smattila@ifc.org smattila@ifc.org [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  29

 29 : COP24_UK319
IN this age of the bizarre in global politics, it takes an awful lot to trump the Donald’s flights of fancy, but the president of Nigeria has just moved political nonsense onto a whole new level by denying that he is a clone. Rumours had spread in Africa and beyond that president Muhammadu Buhari had died and been replaced by a clone of himself. The allegations spread widely on social media and in YouTube videos that the Nigerian leader was a Sudanese impostor named “Jubril”. Speaking at the UN COP 24 climate change conference in Poland, president Buhari was asked about the rumours. “It’s the real me, I assure you,” he said. “I will soon celebrate my 76th birthday and I will still go strong.” The Jouker is now awaiting news from London that Theresa May is denying that she is a robot of the genus Maybot from the planet Zaarg. In a separate development, Environment Secretary Michael Gove has been forced to deny that he is a cyborg called the Govenator and should never be accused of being similar to Arnold Schwarzenegger, not least because hasn’t got Arnie’s muscles. The National can also reveal that Boris Johnson has been denying that he is Pennywise the murderous clown, though significantly the former foreign secretary did not deny being just a clown. Meanwhile Nigel Farage has been taken to task by The Sun who allege that the Ukip MEP - lest we forget who pays his money - has had his hair dyed darker. That last bit is true . . .
  30

 30 : COP23_UK171
One year after the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on climate change, the Bonn Conference, which opens on 6 November in Germany, will be an opportunity for nations around the world to show their ambition for climate action and their determination to keep their promises. “While Paris represented one of those moments where the best of humanity achieved an agreement so important to our collective futures, Bonn represents how we will move forward to fulfill its promise”, said the Executive Secretary of United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Patricia Espinosa, on the margins of a ministerial meeting in Fiji on 17 October 2017 to prepare for the Bonn Conference of the Convention’s States Parties. “We are running out of time to turn things around. To do so, we must significantly increase our efforts to reduce emissions and our carbon footprints,” she added. The Paris Agreement, which was adopted by the 196 Parties to the UNFCCC in December 2015 in the French capital after which it is named, calls on countries to combat climate change by limiting the rise of global temperature below 2 degrees Celsius and strive not to exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius. A year ago, the Marrakech Climate Conference concluded with the Marrakech Action Proclamation, for our climate and sustainable development, in which the UNFCCC States Parties affirmed their “commitment” to the “full implementation” of the Paris Agreement. Today, 169 Parties have ratified the Agreement. At the Bonn Conference, informally known as COP 23 , countries will seek to move forward in completing the rule book for operationalizing the Paris Agreement. The Conference, which runs until 17 November, is chaired by Fiji, an island State particularly affected by the impacts of climate change. “Never has our work been more necessary. We see this with respect to the extreme weather events affecting almost every continent throughout the world,” said Ms. Espinosa. COP 23 President and Fiji Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama agrees. “We can no longer ignore this crisis. Whether it is fires in California, Portugal and Spain. Flooding in Nigeria, India and Bangladesh. The dramatic Arctic melt. Ice breaking off the continent of Antarctica. The recent hurricanes that devastated the Caribbean and the southern United States [. . . ] It’s hard to find any part of the world that is unaffected by these events”, he said at the ministerial meeting in Fiji. Bonn Conference an opportunity to boost climate risk management efforts In an op-ed published in October 2017, Ms. Espinosa, alongside the Administrator of the UN Development Programme (UNDP), Achim Steiner, and the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Disaster Risk Reduction, Robert Glasser, said the Bonn Conference “provides an opportunity to not only accelerate emission reductions but also boost the serious work of ensuring that the management of climate risk is integrated into disaster risk management as a whole.” A week before the opening of the Bonn Conference, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) announced that the levels of carbon dioxide (C02) surged at
“record-breaking speed” to new highs in 2016. The Bonn Conference will feature a series of meetings and events, including the high-level segment, on 15 November and 16 November, attended by Heads of State and Government, Ministers, and UN Secretary-General Ant’f3nio Guterres. Mr. Guterres has invited leaders to consider championing six high-impact areas at a special Climate Summit in 2019. These areas are investment in clean technology, maturing carbon pricing, enabling the energy transition, risk mitigation and building resilience, augmenting the contribution of sub-national actors and business and mobilizing climate finance. “Increasing ambition is the only way to keep the global temperature rise well below 2 degrees Celsius this century, and as close to 1.5 degree as possible. By focusing on these sectors, we can substantially reduce the gap between where we are and where we need to be,” said UN Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed, at the pre-COP meeting in Fiji. Among the side events scheduled at COP 23 , several will be organized under the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action to show how cities, regions, private sector companies and investors are trying to implement the Paris Agreement in the areas of energy, water, agriculture, oceans and coastal areas, human settlements, transportation, industry, and forests. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  31

 31 : COP22_UK136
Text of report in English by state-owned Sudanese news agency Suna website on 24 November Khartoum - President of the Republic, Field Marshal Umar al-Bashir, and the accompanied delegation, returned home, Thursday [24 November] from Morocco and Equatorial Guinea where he participated in the world summit for Climate Change ( COP22 ), IN Marrakesh, Morocco. The second summit with the African leaders, on Climate Change in Africa and then he headed to Equatorial Guinea where he attended the Afro-Arab-summit in Malabo. He was received at the airport by the first vice-president of the republic, Gen Bakri Hasan Salih, and a number of government senior officials. Foreign Minister, Prof Ibrahim Ghandur said in an arrival press statements that President Al-Bashir has participated in three summits successively, firstly, the World Climate Change Summit which was attended by 109 Heads of State and governments. And the second dealt with the climate change in Africa, adding that the president delivered two statements in the two summits. Prof Ghandur has concluded that the third summit was the Arab-African Summit, which has concluded sessions in Malabo, Wednesday [23 November]. Source: Suna news agency website, Khartoum, in English 24 Nov 16
  32

 32 : COP24_UK253
The European Union’s climate change chief has called for the bloc to bring its greenhouse gas emissions down to net zero by 2050 to tackle climate change. The proposal by climate commissioner Miguel Arias Ca’f1ete would make Europe the world’s first major economic to go fully “carbon neutral”. Speaking yesterday, Mr Arias Ca’f1ete said while the EU already had “the world’s most ambitious” climate change policies, they were “clearly not sufficient” to limit global warming in light of new evidence. The European Commission has unveiled a new strategy assessing options to achieve the goal, laying out a series of scenarios to be considered by member states. National governments will have to agree a final approach next year. That will be submitted to the United Nations in 2020. Agreement on the issue will be hard, however, with some countries like Poland and Germany struggling to meet their commitments, and others such as Denmark, Sweden and Spain seeking a more ambitious commitment. “In October, the IPCC [Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change] special report on 1.5C made it clear that emissions need to be reduced with far more urgency than previously anticipated and that limiting climate change to 1.5C is necessary to reduce the likelihood of extreme weather events. This has been a wake-up call,” Mr Arias Ca’f1ete told reporters in Brussels. The announcement comes ahead of the COP24 UN summit in Katowice, Poland, where it is hoped the implementation of the Paris Agreement on climate change will be finalised. Under current policies the EU is expected to cut emissions by about 60 per cent by 2050 compared to 1990 levels, with most of the work done by new energy efficiency and renewable energy targets. But to meet the Paris Agreement and keep warming below 2C or ideally 1.5C, the Commission’s report accepts that more action is needed. The Commission says going carbon-neutral will also have other significant benefits, such as cutting premature air pollution deaths by 40 per cent and adding 2 per cent to the EU’s economies by 2050, while reducing energy imports by over 70 per cent and saving up to Euro 3bn a year. The EU is already being hit by climate change, with the worst wildfires on record in Greece this summer killing 99. “The EU has already started the modernisation and transformation towards a climate neutral economy,” Mr Arias Ca’f1ete said. “And today, we are stepping up our efforts as we propose a strategy for Europe to become the world’s first major economy to go climate neutral by 2050. Going climate neutral is necessary, possible and in Europe’s interest. It is necessary to meet the long-term temperature goals of the Paris Agreement. It is possible with current technologies and those close to deployment. And it is in Europe’s interest to stop spending on fossil fuel imports and invest in meaningful improvements to the daily lives of all Europeans. No European, no region should be left behind. The EU will support those more impacted by this transition so that everyone’s ready to adapt to the new requirements of a climate neutral economy.”
  33

 33 : COP26_UK119
The Oil and Gas Authority has given the green light to a new oil and gas project in the North Sea, just months after the UK hosted the COP26 climate change summit. The Government has claimed that the Abigail oil field, which is going to be developed by an Israeli company called Ithaca Energy, will have no “significant effect on the environment”. Related articles Even though the oil field’s reserves are relatively small, this move has sparked a backlash as climate groups criticise Ms Sturgeon for not putting up more of a fight. Oil Change International, a global climate campaign group slammed Ms Sturgeon, describing it as “a mockery of [the UK’s] pledge to keep 1.5’b0C alive” and asking her: “if Cambo wasn’t ok, why is Abigail?” Cambo, which is one of the UK’s largest undeveloped offshore oilfields and lies in Scotland, was set to be developed until its lead developer Shell pulled out of the project in December after facing backlash from environmentalists. In November, as COP26 ended in Glasgow, Ms Sturgeon took a strong stance against the proposed development, saying: “I don’t think that Cambo should get the green light.” Tessa Khan, director of Uplift, a campaign group working towards a fossil fuel-free UK, said: “Why is the Government sanctioning an oil and gas development that will see little to no benefit for UK energy customers or taxpayers, which only worsens the climate crisis, and where the only winners are the oil firm behind the project?”
“A serious response from the Government to both unaffordable energy bills and the climate crisis, would see all this investment steered into cheaper UK renewables. READ MORE: Brexit Britain set for first-ever rocket launch from UK soil”The Government needs to stop rolling over for the oil and gas industry, stop dishing out licences, and get on with making sure people have access to affordable, renewable energy.” However, the operations director of the OGA refuted these claims, saying that oil and gas will continue to be part of the energy mix for decades to come, as the country gradually transitions away from fossil fuels and into renewable energy. Speaking to Sky News, Scott Robertson said: “I understand the argument, it’s a difficult and very complex situation to come to the right answer on, but if we stop new developments, the UK will just become more dependent on imports, and we’ll reduce our own security of supply options.” DON’T MISS: solar storm warning as Earth set for ‘direct hit’ [REVEAL] Brexit Britain to pull £3!5bn EU funding and inject it into UK project [HIGHLIGHT] Chewing gum found to ‘significantly weaken’ Covid virus potential [SPOTLIGHT] The Offshore Petroleum Regulator for Environment and Decommissioning said there would be a “short-term increase in emissions” linked to the Abigail Field Development in its environmental assessment. But added: “Taken into the wider context of UK atmospheric emissions, I conclude that there will be no significant effect on the environment.” Express.co.uk has contacted the Scottish Government for comment. Related articles Area 51 mystery as £ircraft’ spotted in rare satellite images UK launches ‘war on cancer’ with revolutionary plan to end disease Fishing mystery SOLVED: Defra uncovers ‘cause’ of thousands dead crabs Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  34

 34 : COP22_UK197
Aware of their vulnerabilities to the impacts of climate change, countries in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region have begun taking action to confront the phenomenon and today, several highlighted their
initiatives at the United Nations Climate Conference in Marrakech, Morocco, known as COP 22 . “Climate change will make a difficult situation much worse, and will affect millions of people in the Middle East and North Africa region,” World Bank MENA Vice-President Hafez Ghanem told a press conference at the 22nd Conference of Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). “Countries in the region are aware of the challenges, and have begun taking action.” Agriculture in the MENA region is especially vulnerable to changes in temperature and precipitation. As global temperatures rise, they will rise even faster in MENA, causing more frequent and severe droughts. The 2015 drought in Morocco destroyed more than half the wheat harvest and led to a 1.5 per cent drop in the country’s Gross Domestic Output. During a panel discussion on UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s Initiative on Climate Resilience at COP 22 on Friday, Saudi Arabia’s Chief Climate Negotiator, Khalid Abuleif, said that the region “is going to see a lot of challenges from an ecosystem point of view and from a socio-economic point of view.” The challenge is not only about reducing gas emissions but also about raising “our resilience.” Mr. Abuleif stressed that as Saudi Arabia is diversifying its economy, any new sector will be put under regulations that will address sustainability and climate resilience. He added that his country is focusing especially on water management, “making sure we are using water in a sustainable manner,” and on the protection of coastal zones. Tunisia has announced a 41 per cent emission reduction by 2030. Most importantly, 13 per cent will be based on national efforts, while the rest will come from support provided by the international community. A week after COP 22 concludes, Tunisia will host an international investment conference (29-30 November) to mobilize $ 2.4 billion dollars, 40 per cent of which will be allocated to projects pertaining to the ‘green economy,’ with a focus on renewable energy. In Morocco, to meet the country’s commitments on climate action, the Bank Al Maghrib (Central Bank of Morocco) recently unveiled the road map of the Moroccan financial sector in climate financing. That country has also taken steps to adapt its agriculture, with better water management and more climate-resistant crops, while also lowering its emissions by eliminating most energy subsidies and with the construction of the large solar plant in Ouarzazate, World Bank senior official Hafez Ghanem noted. “This is the kind of comprehensive climate action we will support across the region, with a special focus on the poorest and most vulnerable,” he added. The World Bank Group announced on Tuesday a new plan to ramp up support for countries in the MENA region by nearly doubling the portion of Bank financing dedicated to climate action, taking it to around $ 1.5 billion dollars per year by 2020. The plan focuses on four priorities: food and water security; sustainable cities adapted to new climate conditions; the transition to low-carbon energy; and the protection of the poorest that are most exposed to the impacts of climate change. The current Conference follows the adoption by 196 UNFCCC States Parties last December, of the Paris Agreement, so-named after the French capital where it was approved, which aims to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change by keeping the global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit it to 1.5 degrees Celsius. The Agreement entered into force in time for COP 22 , which has been under way since 7 November. Before the meeting wraps up on Saturday, 18 November, parties hope to define the rules of implementation of the Paris Agreement and establish a viable plan to provide financial support to developing countries to support climate action. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  35

 35 : COP26_UK195
The event is expected to be the biggest protest during the Cop26 summit and is taking place alongside hundreds of similar protests around the world. Approximately 50,000 people are expected at today’ s climate protest in Glasgow. Climate activists including Greta Thunberg and Vanessa Nakate will be in attendance, and are expected to address crowds at approximately 3pm. HYPERLINK WATCH: Thousands march with Greta Thunberg at youth climate protest in Glasgow Cop26 conference, claiming it is the most excluding Cop ever, labelling it greenwashing and a two-week celebration of business as usual and blah blah blah . HYPERLINK Demonstrators during the Fridays for Future Scotland march through Glasgow during the HYPERLINK Cop26 summit in Glasgow. Picture date: Friday November 5, 2021. It comes at the end of the first week of the Cop26 conference, with crowds assembling at Kelvingrove Park at around 12.30pm before marching into the city centre. About 100 climate change demonstrations are planned for other parts of the UK, while events are expected to take place in a further 100 countries including Kenya, Turkey, France, Brazil, Australia and Canada. Climate activist Vanessa Nakate from Uganda takes to the stage at HYPERLINK src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw #FridaysForFuture rally. HYPERLINK ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw @ COP26 ~ HYPERLINK pic.twitter.com/kAM1MkFxmH The Sunday Post
(@Sunday_Post) HYPERLINK ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw November 5, 2021 Today’ s protest, named the Global Day of Action for Climate Justice, follows a rally by many young activists - including striking school pupils - who marched through the city on Friday. Around 15,000 people were thought to be present at the protest yesterday, lead by Fridays for Future Scotland, a group founded by youngsters inspired by Ms Thunberg. {22420222 As well as activists Greta Thunberg and Vanessa Nakate, speakers included climate organisations and individuals from across the world, including indigenous groups, and those who have been directly affected by fossil fuel exploration, rising sea levels and climate change. Cop26 in Glasgow - read more: HYPERLINK WATCH: Thousands march with Greta Thunberg at youth climate protest in Glasgow November 5, 2021 HYPERLINK Pikachu protesters demand end to coal power as HYPERLINK Cop26 protests continue November 4, 2021 HYPERLINK Cop26 : Hundreds of activists take part in Glasgow city centre Extinction Rebellion demonstration November 3, 2021 HYPERLINK Cop26 : Protests continue, world leaders promise to reduce methane emissions and Leonardo DiCaprio arrives at summit November 2, 2021 HYPERLINK Cop26 : Police Scotland apologise for safety concerns over pedestrian diversions around world leaders’ route to Kelvingrove HYPERLINK Cop26 today: World leaders meet, young activists make their voices heard, and pedestrians’ anger as road uncrossable HYPERLINK Demonstrators during the Fridays for Future Scotland march through Glasgow during the HYPERLINK Cop26 summit in Glasgow. Thousands more are expected at today’s protest. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  36

 36 : COP25_UK33
AYRSHIRE’s top cop~is leaving the area after less than a year in his current role. Chief Superintendent Mark Hargreaves, Divisional Commander for Ayrshire, will be transferred to the Glasgow Division to head up policing of the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) which will take place in the city from November 9-19. Police confirmed the move today and said that they were consulting with North, South and East Ayrshire Councils as they looked to identify a successor for the top job. Councillor John Glover, who sits on North Ayrshire Council’s Police and Fire and Rescue Committee, said: “Chief Superintendent Mark Hargreaves, has been promoted to a big job - the organisation of a climate change conference in Glasgow.”We presented him with a card and a bottle of wine.~When I handed the card over I said to him it is a massive job to take over, and I felt he was very well qualified for the position.” He added: “It’s a compliment to North Ayrshire that he has been chosen. He’s done a very good job.” A spokesperson for Police Scotland confirmed the move: “Police Scotland can confirm Chief Superintendent Mark Hargreaves is being transferred to Glasgow Division to work on arranging the policing of the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) later this year.”We are consulting with the three local authorities in Ayrshire Division with a view to identifying a suitable successor.”
  37

 37 : COP23_UK138
LONDON (ICIS)–Norway s largest pension company, KLP, is withdrawing from investments in companies that have significant revenue from oil sands, it said on Thursday. The company said that it made the decision following a review of the climate and environmental risks related to unconventional oil and gas extraction. Those risks were as great as those for extracting coal. KLP withdrew from coal investments in 2014. Coal and oil sands extraction were not compatible with the 2015 Paris climate agreement, it added. Specifically, KLP decided not to invest in companies with 30% or more of revenues from oil sands extraction, or in companies in which combined revenues exceed 30% from oil sands and coal extraction, it said. KLP did not identify any companies or countries. But it said it would announce a list of affected companies next year. Oil sands can be found in Venezuela, the US, and Russia, but the Athabasca deposit in Canada’s Alberta province is the world’s largest, and the country is a big producer of oil-sands-based fuels. KLP’s move comes as a number of companies, including Norwegian energy major Statoil, have [1]exited or reduced investments and activities in Canada s oil-sands sector. Canada s federal government under Prime Minister Justin Trudeau supports the Paris climate deal, but, at the same time, it keeps defending the oil-sands industry. By contrast, Canada last month [2]joined an alliance of countries that pledges to phase out the use of coal. For Canada s chemical producers the oil-sands sector is a market for a number of chemicals and products. At the same time, the oil-sands industry generates large volumes of sulphur, for use in chemical and related production. Also, chemical producers are looking to off-gases from upgrading oil sands as a source of feedstock to supply existing plants, as well as expansions and new plants. In a [3]report earlier on Thursday, the country s chemical industry trade group again underlined the importance of the oil and gas sector for chemical firms. Additional reporting by Tom Brown References 1. HYPERLINK 2. ~ HYPERLINK cop23 / 3. ~ HYPERLINK
  38

 38 : COP23_UK35
Speaking at Oceans Action Day, at the COP23 UN Climate Conference in Bonn the Vice-President in charge of Climate Action and Environment at the European Investment Bank (EIB) has urged the global community to do more protect oceans and support the blue economy. Jonathan Taylor said, ‘The European Investment Bank, which is the long-term lender of the European Union, can be a strong partner in protecting the environment, especially our oceans. With your help, we can reduce pollutants in the water, manage ocean resources sustainably and mitigate climate change.’ He added, ‘It is important to underline that there simply will be no green without blue. In other words, in order to meet the Paris targets and Sustainable Development Goals, we need to establish an economy that is blue in the same sense that the economy on land should be green.’ Speaking at one of a series of events organised around Oceans Action Day, Vice-President Taylor added, ‘But the global community needs to work together. It is clear that current climate strategies - on national, regional or local levels - are not leading to concrete policies and mechanisms to ensure that ocean acidification is reduced.’ (click here for full speaking points - check against delivery) As a key supporter of the Paris Climate Agreement, the EIB has committed to deliver global climate financing of 100 billion dollars before 2020. The EU bank’s efforts actively contribute to the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions and tackle important water issues such as ocean acidification and warming, which are growing problems around the world. The EIB is involved in a wide range of ocean and coastal projects - supporting adaptation, biodiversity and ecosystems projects aiming to increase the resilience of the ocean and coastal environments to the effects of climate change. Over the last five years the EIB has supported the blue economy activities such as offshore wind, seaport installations and water transport with around 8 billion euros. The EIB’s support for small island states has involved mitigation and adaptation projects in the Caribbean (supported by a recent 110 million dollar loan to the Caribbean Development Bank for climate change mitigation, adaptation and resilience projects), the Pacific, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean and the Mediterranean. Projects include an airport in the Cook Islands, roads in La Reunion, a wind farm in Cape Verde, solar micro grids in the Maldives, upgraded water systems in the Seychelles and a hydro project in the Solomon Islands. Small islands are among the most vulnerable to the effects of climate change. Discover in this interactive map how the European Investment Bank is helping them adapt to climate change and mitigate its effects. On November 10 at COP23 , the EIB signed its biggest ever loan in the Pacific: a water project in Fiji’s capital Suva to help increase climate change resilience of the water supply system. Earlier this year, the EIB also approved a 20 million dollar investment in the Sustainable Ocean Fund. This will provide money for marine and coastal enterprises that are helping with conservation, improved livelihoods and better economic returns. Background information: The European Investment Bank is active in more than 130 countries. It is the world’s largest financier of climate-related investment and largest single issuer of green bonds. A quarter of all EIB financing supports climate action and the EIB is committed to providing USD 100 billion for climate-related investment in the five years up to 2020. At COP23 in Bonn, EIB climate experts and senior management will highlight the EIB’s broad support for climate investment in diverse sectors, announcing a number of new policy initiatives and project investments. A regularly updated agenda of EIB events and contacts can be found here: HYPERLINK HYPERLINK cop23 [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  39

 39 : COP21_UK99
January 29, 2016 Less than two months after 196 parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) adopted the Paris Agreement, the global community is already seeing signs of it being a decisive turning point, according to a senior UN official dealing with climate issues. A month and a half since 196 parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) adopted the Paris Agreement, the global community is already seeing signs of it being a decisive turning point, according to a senior UN official dealing with climate issues. “Much has been happening since Paris - the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) confirmed that 2015 was the hottest year on record, not just by a little but by a lot,” Janos Pasztor, who was today appointed as Senior Adviser to the Secretary-General on Climate Change, told reporters at a briefing in New York. For the past year, Mr. Pasztor had been leading the UN’s climate change efforts as Assistant Secretary-General on Climate Change, working towards last December’s 21st United Nations climate change conference ( COP21 ). Recalling that UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has invited world leaders to a signing ceremony on 22 April - which coincides with International Mother Earth Day - the climate advisor noted that it will be the first day the Agreement is open for formal signatures. He said Mr. Ban is urging countries to quickly ratify the agreement so it can enter into force as soon as possible, adding that the event will also be an opportunity to discuss efforts to implement national climate plans, known as INDCs, and to generally “maintain the momentum of the action agenda.” Meanwhile, he underlined the Secretary-General’s recent call for a doubling of investments in clean energy by 2020, which he said was greeted “very positively” by many investors. “The Paris Agreement sent a clear message to markets and investors that it’s time to get serious about climate change. We’re now seeing evidence that the signal has been received loud and clear,” Mr. Pasztor stressed. Meanwhile, in a statement issued by the UN Spokesperson’s Office, Mr. Ban expressed his deep gratitude for Mr. Pasztor’s “dedicated service and leadership” over the past quarter of a century with the world body on the key global challenges of climate change, energy and sustainability. “In his new role as Senior Adviser to the Secretary-General on Climate Change, Mr. Pasztor will support efforts of the Secretary-General to mobilize world leaders and all sectors of society to implement the landmark Paris Agreement,” the statement indicated.
  40

 40 : COP24_UK43
Africa must not be short-changed by climate finance, says expert panel at COP24 . Climate change presents a US$ 3 trillion investment opportunity in Africa by 2030 - and the private sector will be key to green investment and development, Barbara Buchner, one of the top 20 influential women in climate change, has said. , Buchner, who is also the Executive Director for Climate Finance Program at Climate Policy Initiative (CPI) lent her voice to those of other experts at the Finance Day organized by the African Development Bank at COP24 in Katowice, Poland. A range of high-profile speakers set out the challenges and opportunities for financing adaptation and mitigation efforts across Africa over four fascinating sessions, including Innovative Financing Solutions, Drive Billions to a Sustainable Economy in Africa, Inclusive Policies, and Finance for Sustainable Energy Access. Buchner set the scene by reminding the audience that 14% of the world’s’ population lives in sub-Saharan Africa, yet only 3% of global climate finance flows into the continent. She shared useful insights from her work on the Global Innovation Lab for Climate Finance initiative, emphasizing that a public-private approach is key to its effectiveness. ‘Since launching in 2014, the Global Innovation Lab for Climate Finance has launched 35 transformative solutions, collectively mobilizing US$ 1 billion in mitigation and adaptation efforts around the world,’ she said. ‘But financial solutions are not enough. We need the right enabling environment to attract investment at scale. We’ve developed a programme with McKinsey to provide governments with legal, technical and financial support to allow this to happen.’ Panel speakers called for innovative approaches to attract and steer financial ?ows consistent towards low-carbon and climate-resilient development to achieve the NDCs that Africa has set out. Statistics have it that Africa offers the highest returns compared to most emerging market economies. For the last two decades, the continent has seen steady economic growth underpinned by commodity exports, growing market demand, and strengthened structural elements. Between 2011 and 2015, and as part of its previous Climate Change Action Plan (CCAP), the African Development Bank mobilized approximately US$ 12 billion of climate finance to support climate-resilient and low-carbon development in Africa. Nonetheless, Africa has not succeeded as much as other regions of the world in mobilizing the funding needed to implement climate-smart initiatives. With new Green Climate Fund (GCF) finance now available to be channeled through the Bank, African countries will have additional resources to access. David Jackson, Director of Local Development Finance at UN Capital Development Fund (UNCDF), said: ‘Adaptation is going to be a very expensive process; it’s also a localized process. It can only be done by those responsible for land-use planning, agriculture, water management, transport etc.’ Jackson emphasized the need to encourage access at a local level and to set up national platforms for adaptation, which bring together national and local governments.’ Experts emphasized how programming adaptation efforts presents a unique challenge given the evolving nature of climate risks, associated uncertainties, and existing implementation issues. Gareth Phillips, Chief Climate Change and Green Officer at the African Development Bank, said: ‘Strengthening the capacities of national and subnational bodies to access, manage, and channel finance and collectively work together is critical to making adaptation happen at the speed and scale we need. At the same time, we have to do better at engaging national and sub-national stakeholders in the decision-making process. Unlocking finance is critical to achieving the African NDCs.’ The African Development Bank is working closely with international climate funds as well as other partners to scale up climate finance on the African continent and to strengthen institutions to directly access climate funds. In the words of Akinwumi Adesina, President of the African Development Bank:
‘Africa’s financial actors need to work together creatively to mobilize global financial resources at a scale that can support local innovation, and that drives climate-resilient and low-carbon development on the continent. Having been short-changed by climate change, Africa must not be short-changed by climate finance.’ The Bank’s climate spending will increase to 40% of its total new investments by 2020 compared to 26% on average from 2011 to 2014. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  41
