News Articles Set 4
1

 1 : COP26_UK206
TIDMWBI RNS Number : 0239S Woodbois Limited 11 November 2021 11 November 2021 Woodbois Limited (“Woodbois”, the “Group” or the “Company”) COP26 Update Woodbois Limited (AIM: WBI), the African-focused forestry, timber trading, reforestation and voluntary carbon credit company, is pleased to provide an update on the
Company’s participation at the United Nations Climate Change Conference (” COP26 “). Woodbois attended COP26 having been accredited to participate by the Government of Gabon, a country where it already has over 166,000 hectares of concessions for sustainable forestry. Woodbois held meetings with Gabon’s Minister of Forests, Oceans, Environment and Climate Change, and other government representatives. Gabon, one of the few net carbon absorbing countries, has enshrined sustainable forestry practice in law and has lobbied throughout COP26 for developed nations to recognise the value to the planet of the Congo basin’s forests as carbon sinks. The Woodbois team also met Ministers of Forestry and the Environment from multiple other African countries, who were universally interested in the potential benefits of following our model of sustainable forestry and carbon sequestration through scaleable reforestation projects. Members of Woodbois’ carbon team will be at COP26 for the remainder of the conference and can be contacted via HYPERLINK mailto:Ilene.hardy@woodbois.com Ilene.hardy@woodbois.com Commenting on Woodbois’ participation at COP26 , Executive Chair, Paul Dolan, said:”While the final outcome from COP26 currently remains in the balance, what has been clearly evident throughout the conference is the willingness of the private sector to mobilise capital for nature-based solutions in order to address global warming. Evidence of a climate crisis and the value of the earth’s remaining tropical forests as a key mitigant, is recognised by people throughout the world and can no longer be ignored by policy makers. While we hope for a COP26 outcome containing strong commitments to action from the 180+ countries in attendance, our conviction is that regardless of outcome, a framework for a global carbon market bringing the ability to price carbon emissions and offsetting sequestration is inevitable, and we will continue to position the Company accordingly.” Enquiries: Woodbois Limited Paul Dolan - Executive Chair Federico Tonetti - CEO + 44
(0)20 7099 1940 Canaccord Genuity (Nominated Advisor and Broker) Henry Fitzgerald-O’Connor Thomas Diehl + 44 (0)20 7523 8000 Celicourt Communications (IR/PR) +44 (0)20 8434 2643 Mark Antelme HYPERLINK mailto:woodbois@celicourt.uk woodbois@celicourt.uk Jimmy Lea About RNS Reach announcements This is an RNS Reach announcement. RNS Reach is an investor communication service aimed at assisting listed and unlisted (including AIM quoted) companies to distribute media only / non-regulatory news releases into the public domain. Information required to be notified under the AIM Rules for Companies, Market Abuse Regulation or other regulation would be disseminated as an RNS regulatory announcement and not on RNS Reach. Woodbois Limited (AIM:WBI) is an African focused forestry company, divided into three distinct, but highly complementary divisions comprising the production and supply of sustainable African hardwood products, the trading of hardwood and hardwood products, and a reforestation and carbon credit division. The Company’s focus on the transparency and sustainability of its timber operations has been recognised by The Zoological Society of London, which ranked Woodbois joint sixth in its Sustainability Policy Transparency Toolkit (’SPOTT”) ESG policy transparency assessments for the worldwide timber and pulp industries for 2021. This information is provided by Reach, the non-regulatory press release distribution service of RNS, part of the London Stock Exchange. Terms and conditions relating to the use and distribution of this information may apply. For further information, please contact HYPERLINK mailto:rns@lseg.com rns@lseg.com or visit HYPERLINK www.rns.com . NRAGPGBGGUPGPWU Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  2

 2 : COP22_UK100
THE United Nations came to Cardiff last week when students from across Wales took part in a mock United Nations conference on climate change. Students from across the country joined the debate and represented countries such as Brazil, USA, the Philippines and Saudi Arabia. The conference, run annually by Size of Wales in partnership with Welsh Centre for International Affairs, gives young people an opportunity to discuss the issue of climate change from the perspective of world leaders. Topics discussed ranged from clean energy, protecting rainforests, disaster management and how to finance these. “The conference encourages young people to be more engaged with climate change and political issues” said Janie Pridham, education officer at Size of Wales. “It also helps them develop understanding of other nations and cultures and to consider the responsibility of Wales, both locally and globally.” She added: “The standard of debate was extremely high this year.”It was wonderful to see the students take on their roles in such a realistic way. “Some delegates were quoting Trump and there was even a smear campaign between countries.” The aim of the day was for delegates to agree an international resolution on the issue of climate change, similar to the UN climate change COP22 talks that were held in Marrakesh in November. This year Sophie Howe, the Future Generations Commissioner, joined the event, acting as the secretary general and presiding over teams of three pupils representing 20 countries and organisations. “The bright, engaged young people I met today not only understand the critical point we have reached in terms of tackling climate change but understand that it is they who will be experiencing the positive or negative impact of our actions today.” the Commissioner said. “If we continue to give them a voice and an opportunity to influence, it gives me hope that there is a better future for everyone in Wales and that we will be a nation that makes a positive contribution to global wellbeing.” Size of Wales is a unique initiative which is helping to protect an area of rainforest twice the size of Wales as part of a national response to climate change. MOCKCOP is a highlight in its education programme, which also offers free workshops and assemblies to schools across Wales. The event was sponsored by Jenny Rathbone AM.
  3

 3 : COP25_UK155
GEOFFREY COX could be offered the chance to run a major review into judicial activism as a sop for being sacked in Boris Johnson’s first reshuffle since his election landslide this week. The Attorney General is being tipped for a move out of government after sources briefed that he was “not a team player”. However, Tory sources say that to sugar the pill he could be asked to run a new Constitution, Democracy and Rights Commission, which will consider whether to rein in the scope of judicial review challenges in courts. The Tory party’s manifesto commits the Government to setting up the commission before December. One senior Tory source said the job had been “pretty much designed for him”. Lucy Frazer is being lined up to replace Mr Cox, although one minister told The Sunday Telegraph: “Geoffrey doesn’t want to go yet, he certainly wants to stay as Attorney General through the [Brexit] negotiations.” Mr Johnson is understood to have set up a large white board on which he is moving around names and faces of his Cabinet. One Cabinet minister said the Prime Minister was keeping his plans very private, adding:
“The one thing none of us know is what is in Boris’s mind.” Westminster has been awash with rumours all week, with some claiming that the positions of Dominic Raab, the Foreign Secretary, and Sajid Javid, the Chancellor, were under threat. Other moves being considered include Cabinet Office minister Oliver Dowden to the culture department, and Mark Spencer to replace Theresa Villiers in the environment, food and rural affairs department. Michael Gove, the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, is tipped to be given a wider role running the Brexit talks at a beefed-up Cabinet Office. The Prime Minister is also being urged to make the role of the Northern Powerhouse minister - occupied by Jake Berry - a full-time Cabinet position to be a “northern enforcer across the whole of Government”. Lord Goldsmith of Richmond Park is widely tipped to be given the role of chairing the COP26 United Nations Climate Change conference in November. The jobs of Ben Wallace, the Defence Secretary, and Andrea Leadsom, the Business Secretary, are under threat.
  4

 4 : COP21_UK188
Small island countries facing flooding from rising sea levels are closing in on a deal with wealthy countries that would see loss and damage support measures included in the HYPERLINK global climate accord to be finalised in Paris this week . Developed countries have been resisting such a move for more than a year, fearing it could make them liable for billions of dollars in compensation. But Miguel Arias Ca’f1ete, EU climate commissioner, told the Financial Times there was now a growing understanding that loss and damage provisions would be included in the Paris agreement, as long as they did not expose wealthy countries to new claims for compensation. A draft text of the agreement was finalised on Saturday. Mr Arias Ca’f1ete said a meeting that Barack Obama, US president, had with five island leaders last week at the Paris talks, known as COP21 , had helped smooth the way for a compromise on what has become one of the more divisive issues in UN climate talks in recent years. I am very glad that the US is showing flexibility because from the very beginning of this process we have supported this concept of course with adequate language [on compensation], he said. But he added: There is one thing that we do not accept and will not accept in this agreement and that is the notion that there should be liability and compensation for loss and damage. That is a line that we can’ t cross. This is not a US-centric position but it is a position that is important for us. It is still unclear what type of loss and damage measures might make it into the final accord that delegates from nearly 200 nations are due to seal this Friday. The draft text of the agreement called for a climate change displacement co-ordination facility to be set up to relocate people affected by the fierce storms and other extreme weather scientists say is more likely as global temperatures rise. The text also says plans to address irreversible and permanent damage resulting from human-induced climate change should be completed within four years. Island country delegates said they were very pleased wealthy countries were no long rejecting outright the notion that their failure to combat global warming meant extra support was needed for small, poor countries facing a threat to their existence. But James Fletcher of St Lucia, the small Caribbean island state, said the question of how to frame loss and damage support in the Paris agreement was still a stumbling block. We believe we already have avenues for liability and compensation under international law and international agreements, he said. The discussion going on right now is a discussion among lawyers. How do we end up with a text that allays the fears of the US, the EU and other countries that we are creating a mechanism for liability and compensation. And how do you address our concern that we do not give up any rights that we presently already have under international agreements. UN climate talks have been held for more than 20 years without managing to produce the deep cuts in global emissions from burning fossil fuels that scientists say are required to avert dangerous levels of global warming. HYPERLINK Listen to the FT News podcast
  5

 5 : COP21_UK62
Hyundai Motor has delivered five ix35 fuel cell vehicles to the Paris-based electric taxi start-up STEP~ (societe du taxi electrique Parisien). The handover coincides with the opening of the first hydrogen refuelling station in Paris, launched as the world focuses on COP21 , the United Nations climate change conference , held in the French capital. The delivery of the five ix35 fuel cell makes the world’ s largest fuel cell taxi fleet, and is the first step in establishing a hydrogen-powered electric taxi fleet called hype ~ (hydrogen powered electric), serving the greater Paris area. The fleet is planned to increase up to several hundred vehicles within five years, with the refuelling infrastructure to be gradually installed in 2016, to meet the increasing demand for hydrogen. Thomas A. Schmid, chief operating officer at Hyundai Motor Europe said, With this pioneering project, Hyundai Motor and STEP are bringing new sustainable mobility to the streets of Paris. The ix35 fuel cell taxis will provide not only a clean solution for the city, but also a practical, comfortable and reliable choice for drivers and passengers. Compared to a diesel-powered taxi with CO2 emissions of 135g/km and an annual mileage of 100,000 kilometres, the ix35 fuel cell vehicles will save around 70 tons of CO2 per year in exhaust emissions. The only emissions from the tailpipe of the ix35 fuel cell during driving are water vapour. The high-frequency usage of these cars on the ’ hype’ fleet will also showcase the reliability and all-day usability of fuel cell vehicles. To support this, Hyundai Motor will introduce and certify a specialised Hyundai fuel cell dealership, to service the growing taxi fleet. With this latest delivery of fuel cell electric vehicles, the number of ix35 fuel cell on European roads has passed 250 units. The ix35 fuel cell was the first hydrogen-powered car to be mass-produced and offered for sale in Europe. The examples already on European roads have covered more than 1.2m kilometres. By the end of 2015, the model will be available to buy or lease in 13 European countries.
  6

 6 : COP23_UK79
A POPULAR holiday destination for Britons could be gone by the end of the century as it continues to sink due to rising sea levels, as world leaders are called to act at the COP23 conference. Getty The Maldives is rapidly sinking and could be gone in the next 80 years The Pacific Islands contain some of the famous idyllic holiday destinations chosen by Britons for sun and luxury,~ With sea levels rising dramatically in the past few decades, the islands will suffer the most as they eventually become entirely submerged. Tuvalu could be uninhabitable by 2050, with some islands such as Kiribati being completely gone by 2100. The Pacific island nations have urged leaders around the world to act after the COP23 conference in Germany discussed climate change and implementing the 2015 Paris agreement on global warming. The COP23 The Maldives is a famous destination for honeymooners and families, and this is also at risk of completely disappearing. With the lowest elevation in the world and just an average height of four feet above sea level, this too could be gone in the next century. The Solomon Islands have also been affected, with five of them already having completely sunk. New Zealand has become the first nation to create a new visa category for people who live on the islands, and are a product of island displacement. Getty Pacific Islands has warned that many islands are sinking, threatening the homes of many Professor Tim Flannery, a climate change expert at La Trobe University, told news.com.au: “It’s very concerning times, particularly if you live in a small island nation.”Many of those nations are already making agreements to deal with the problem as it develops.” He explained further: “As sea water rises it starts to penetrate the freshwater on the land, that’s the most immediate threat for a lot of the island.”Beach and coastal erosion and flooding is another threat. With these two factors it’s entirely possible within the next 30 years some islands could be rendered uninhabitable.” Getty The Maldives is a popular destination for honeymooners, but may not be around in the next decade They aren’t the only tourist destinations that could disappear within 50 years.~ Rising sea levels are also occurring due to glaciers melting as the planet warms up. The famous Columbia Glacier in Alaska is at risk due to the speed in which it is melting. Related articles UK weather: 2017 could be one of top three HOTTEST years ever recorded Great Barrier Reef DYING: Corals among 62 natural wonders under threat Earth under THREAT: Humans must do THIS to save the planet
  7

 7 : COP23_UK171
One year after the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on climate change, the Bonn Conference, which opens on 6 November in Germany, will be an opportunity for nations around the world to show their ambition for climate action and their determination to keep their promises. “While Paris represented one of those moments where the best of humanity achieved an agreement so important to our collective futures, Bonn represents how we will move forward to fulfill its promise”, said the Executive Secretary of United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Patricia Espinosa, on the margins of a ministerial meeting in Fiji on 17 October 2017 to prepare for the Bonn Conference of the Convention’s States Parties. “We are running out of time to turn things around. To do so, we must significantly increase our efforts to reduce emissions and our carbon footprints,” she added. The Paris Agreement, which was adopted by the 196 Parties to the UNFCCC in December 2015 in the French capital after which it is named, calls on countries to combat climate change by limiting the rise of global temperature below 2 degrees Celsius and strive not to exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius. A year ago, the Marrakech Climate Conference concluded with the Marrakech Action Proclamation, for our climate and sustainable development, in which the UNFCCC States Parties affirmed their “commitment” to the “full implementation” of the Paris Agreement. Today, 169 Parties have ratified the Agreement. At the Bonn Conference, informally known as COP 23 , countries will seek to move forward in completing the rule book for operationalizing the Paris Agreement. The Conference, which runs until 17 November, is chaired by Fiji, an island State particularly affected by the impacts of climate change. “Never has our work been more necessary. We see this with respect to the extreme weather events affecting almost every continent throughout the world,” said Ms. Espinosa. COP 23 President and Fiji Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama agrees. “We can no longer ignore this crisis. Whether it is fires in California, Portugal and Spain. Flooding in Nigeria, India and Bangladesh. The dramatic Arctic melt. Ice breaking off the continent of Antarctica. The recent hurricanes that devastated the Caribbean and the southern United States [. . . ] It’s hard to find any part of the world that is unaffected by these events”, he said at the ministerial meeting in Fiji. Bonn Conference an opportunity to boost climate risk management efforts In an op-ed published in October 2017, Ms. Espinosa, alongside the Administrator of the UN Development Programme (UNDP), Achim Steiner, and the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Disaster Risk Reduction, Robert Glasser, said the Bonn Conference “provides an opportunity to not only accelerate emission reductions but also boost the serious work of ensuring that the management of climate risk is integrated into disaster risk management as a whole.” A week before the opening of the Bonn Conference, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) announced that the levels of carbon dioxide (C02) surged at
“record-breaking speed” to new highs in 2016. The Bonn Conference will feature a series of meetings and events, including the high-level segment, on 15 November and 16 November, attended by Heads of State and Government, Ministers, and UN Secretary-General Ant’f3nio Guterres. Mr. Guterres has invited leaders to consider championing six high-impact areas at a special Climate Summit in 2019. These areas are investment in clean technology, maturing carbon pricing, enabling the energy transition, risk mitigation and building resilience, augmenting the contribution of sub-national actors and business and mobilizing climate finance. “Increasing ambition is the only way to keep the global temperature rise well below 2 degrees Celsius this century, and as close to 1.5 degree as possible. By focusing on these sectors, we can substantially reduce the gap between where we are and where we need to be,” said UN Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed, at the pre-COP meeting in Fiji. Among the side events scheduled at COP 23 , several will be organized under the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action to show how cities, regions, private sector companies and investors are trying to implement the Paris Agreement in the areas of energy, water, agriculture, oceans and coastal areas, human settlements, transportation, industry, and forests. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  8

 8 : COP26_UK208
IN 2010 the UN urged people to drastically reduce meat eating in order to avoid the worst impacts of climate change. Eleven years on, any mention of animal agriculture has been avoided in COP26 discussions, even though it is responsible for 14.5 per cent to 16.5 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions. Phasing out coal has been a major issue in COP26 . However it is reported that even if the use of fossil fuel was ended immediately the emissions from animal agriculture alone would make it impossible to limit global warming to the 1.5C target. An analysis in 2014 by the Natural Resources Defence Council in the US showed that beef alone was responsible for 34 per cent of all food-related greenhouse gas emissions in that country. As well as global warming, animal agriculture is a leading cause of habitat destruction, desertification, wildlife extinction and ocean dead zones. Although COP26 addressed deforestation, delegates failed to mention that an estimated 80 per cent of global deforestation is caused by the expansion of animal agriculture. Animal agriculture also uses a considerable amount of water. A global scientific study revealed “animal products have a large water footprint relative to crop products.” To make matters worse, animal agriculture is also a cause of land, water and air pollution. The conditions in which many farmed animals are kept has resulted in the over-use of antibiotics. Antibiotic resistant bacteria are among the gravest health threats to humans. Health officials say this will only get worse if the overuse of these drugs continues. Low on the list of priorities for animal agriculture, welfare standards vary considerably worldwide. Even though the UK boasts of high standards, many undercover investigations have revealed heartbreaking conditions and treatment of animals. A recent expose by Sky News about beef production in Brazil revealed sickening cruelty. The feature said that it was impossible to trace where the beef was eventually sold. There has never been a better time to reduce meat consumption or give it up - for the planet, for health and for the animals. Elizabeth Allison, Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  9

 9 : COP25_UK353
One of Papua New Guinea’s largest companies and investors, Oil Search, has teamed up with Swedish energy, industry and infrastructure design and consulting company AFRY and the Climate Change and Development Authority of Papua New Guinea for a new project combining biomass and solar power. The PNG Biomass project is an integrated renewable energy project combining a 30MW biomass plant and a solar PV farm. On 6 December the companies signed a memorandum of understanding at the 25 th Conference of the Parties ( COP25 ) in Madrid, Spain. Ninning Jal, health, safety and environment supervisor for PNG Biomass, said: “PNG Biomass is the first proposed utility-scale renewable biomass and solar power generation project in Papua New Guinea.”We believe PNG Biomass will substantially enhance Papua New Guinea’s reputation in demonstrating climate action and help transition the country to a fully renewable energy sector.” Michael Henson, project director at PNG Biomass, added that the project is also unique because it relies on the participation and support of landowners and communities. He said: “At the core of our project is the objective to power Papua New Guinea with affordable, domestic low-emission renewable energy through an inclusive economic growth model that empowers local communities. We are powering Papua New Guinea and empowering communities.” Richard Pinnock, head of AFRY’s Energy division said:
“AFRY’s mission is to create sustainable engineering and design solutions with a clear focus to support our clients to accelerate their energy transition towards a sustainable future. We are very proud to be part of the brave leadership of all parties associated with making the PNG Biomass project a reality.”
  10

 10 : COP21_UK305
India, one of the world’ s largest coal users, will cut back on its investments in the fuel if the new climate deal due to be struck next week in Paris delivers more money to help it shift to cleaner sources of energy such as solar power, a senior negotiator said on Wednesday. We’ ve made it very clear that solar and wind is our first commitment, said Ajay Mathur, director general of India’ s Bureau of Energy Efficiency, at the Paris talks, HYPERLINK known as COP21 . Hydro, nuclear, all of these non-carbon sources are what we will develop to the largest extent we can, he told reporters. But it has to be affordable. He was speaking as campaigners from a fossil fuel divestment movement said the number of investors shunning coal, gas and oil has surged ahead of the Paris conference. At least 500 institutions with more than $3.4tn in assets have pledged to avoid or cut holdings in fossil fuels, said activist groups 350.org and Divest-Invest. That represents a big jump from a year ago, when 181 institutions representing about $50bn in assets were committed to such a step, they said. A spate of city councils, banks, pension funds, churches and universities have pledged to cut back or shun coal investments this year. One of the most striking commitments came last month when Allianz, the German insurance group, said it would pull more than € 4bn ($4.3bn) from companies with coal businesses. Earlier this year, the Norwegian parliament decided the country’ s $857bn sovereign wealth fund should withdraw from any company in which coal represents more than 30 per cent of the business. Both moves came in the wake of a divestment campaign that began on US college campuses more than two years ago in an effort to make fossil fuel holdings as unpopular as tobacco or investments in apartheid-era South Africa. Churches and wealthy individuals with an interest in climate change then joined, including the heirs to the Rockefeller oil fortune. The momentum in this divestment campaign is accelerating day by day, Stephen Heintz, president of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, told journalists at the Paris climate conference on Wednesday. There is a moral imperative to save the planet and to do so we need to end the fossil fuel era now, he said. Benjamin Sporton, chief executive of the World Coal Association said that although the campaigners’ multi-trillion dollar headline figures seemed large, a lot of the institutions and funds with these assets did not currently have coal holdings and the amount of money actually being pulled out of coal was relatively small. While there are companies and funds saying they want to get out of coal, there are plenty of others that are remaining invested, he told the Financial Times. This was especially the case in South East Asia and in large countries such as India, where governments are planning to continue using coal for electricity. Mr Sporton said he hoped the Paris climate talks would help drive the use of technology that allows coal to be burnt more efficiently and cleanly, a chief aim of his members. Coal companies have borne the brunt of the divestment push because coal produces more carbon emissions when burnt than other fossil fuels such as natural gas. But it remains an abundant and cheap source of energy in many developing countries and is the biggest source of electricity globally, accounting for a 41 per cent share of the world’ s electricity, according to the International Energy Agency. That global share is expected to fall to just over 30 per cent by 2030, the agency says, as fast-growing renewable energy sources supply a larger proportion of electricity. However, divestments have not been the only feature of this year’ s assault on coal. Banks have made public their refusal to fund some coal investments. In Australia, where India’ s Adani group wants to build the country’ s largest proposed coal project, Standard Chartered has said it will no longer be involved in the increasingly controversial development. Banks including Deutsche and HSBC had already steered clear. And multilateral commitments to the coal industry have been reined in. Last month member states of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development agreed limits on export subsidies for coal-fired power stations, following unilateral initiatives to curb export credits by countries including the UK and US. But divestment has its critics. Anne Stausboll, chief executive of Calpers, the California state pension system, has called lobbying for divestment flawed and said it is more constructive to engage with companies where the fund invests. However California approved a divestment law in October. Calpers will evaluate divestment as outlined in the bill , the fund said. As of June it had $57m invested in 27 thermal coal companies. Listen to the HYPERLINK World Weekly podcast
  11

 11 : COP25_UK260
For the past six months, I have supported a group of British women of Bangladeshi origin who are facing redundancy, through no fault of their own. Their jobs have been the first and only of their lifetime, having been born and raised near their workplace. In total, between them, these five women have served in this workplace for 72 years. They all began as full-time employed staff, and only became part-time when they had children. As stipulated under the Employment Rights Act 1996, the redundancy payout they received was calculated only on their part-time hours, even though they had worked far more full-time years than part-time years. Although some men will also be affected by this if they change their hours from full to part-time, many women are at a disadvantage as they are more likely to change their hours after having a baby, before phasing back into full-time work. The Fawcett Society recently launched the Right To Know Bill at an event that I attended, which has cross-party support for a women’s right to know how much their male colleagues are being paid for performing the same role. It is a motion that I have submitted for debate at my council meeting in March to give women the right to know pay inequity in the council’s workplace. The Global Gender Report 2020, which covers four areas of economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival and political empowerment, revealed that gender parity would not be attained for 100 years. It’s worth emphasising how stark this statistic is: none of us will see gender parity in our lifetimes, and neither will many of our children. Have we become more accepting of our circumstances, or have our struggles made us as resilient as ever to demand an equal world? As women, are we doing enough, or are we too accepting of our lot and believe that no one will listen? Baroness Lorely Burt, Liberal Democrat spokesperson for women, says: “Every year Women’s Day comes around and I mark the fact that we have made incremental steps forward, and some steps backwards. It behoves all of us who have a voice to speak out for a happier, more fulfilled and more equal world for women and girls.” This year’s international women’s celebrations theme is #eachforequal, promoting the message that an equal world is an enabled world and is fundamental to thriving economies. The 2020 March4Women will take place on Sunday, International Women’s Day, and comes before the UK hosts the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Glasgow later this year. The march will be a feminist call to action for politicians to play their part in addressing climate emergency. Singer Emeli Sande, who will perform as part of the rally, said: “The climate crisis affects every single one of us on our shared planet, but the poorest are enduring the worst of it - with women and girls disproportionately affected, as they so often are when disasters strike. It’s time we step up and demand a fairer world.” There are many women who have had the tenacity and courage to fight for equality. Yet many more are silently enduring pay discrimination or are unaware they’re being treated unfairly. Even our own government is at fault. Recently, the Financial Times’ analysis of official figures revealed that despite the government wanting to make the civil service the UK’s most inclusive employer, four departments reported a widening of the gap between what men and women are paid. The 2019 gender pay gap figures revealed that eight in 10 UK firms pay men more than women, but that women from Bame backgrounds are disproportionately affected. It is not because they are less educated - quite the opposite. Over the last 11 years, for example, more Muslim women than men are gaining degrees, yet despite evidence still shows they are still struggling to enter the labour market because of discrimination. As I think of all the women I have met, supported, cried and laughed, struggled and celebrated with I am reminded of Isabelle Adelle’s words: “I can promise you that women working together - linked, informed and educated - can bring peace and prosperity to this forsaken planet.” We women can do the impossible - however long it takes us. Rabina Khan is a Liberal Democrat councillor for Shadwell in Tower Hamlets
  12

 12 : COP23_UK47
New Delhi: Press Information Bureau, Government of India has issued the following press release: The India Pavilion at COP 23 was inaugurated by Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan at Bonn in Germany today. The Minister is leading the Indian delegation, which is participating in the 23rd Conference of Parties ( COP-23 ) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC) being held at the Bonn, Germany from November 6-17, 2017. The inauguration of India Pavilion was attended by the partner ministries, government departments, multi-lateral and bilateral partners, industry associations, Non-Government Organisations and Civil Society Organisations and others. India’ s theme for COP 23 Conserving Now, Preserving Future takes India’ s message forward. He expressed happiness over the organization of the India Pavilion at COP-23 and added that India has been ambitious in its climate change actions, and expects other countries also to be ambitious based on their historical responsibility on the basis of equity and Common But Differentiated Responsibilities. He invited all participants to be active members of discussions, deliberations and sessions scheduled at the India Pavilion. Additional Secretary, MoEF&CC, Shri. Arun Kumar Mehta, said that over the next 11 days, India will be organizing 20 sessions, covering issues important for climate change adaptation and mitigation. He added that presentations and panel discussions involving experts from both public and private spheres will be hosted. In his address, Joint Secretary MoEFCC, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, welcomed the Minister and expressed the hope that through its activities, the India Pavilion will create awareness about India’ s positive climate actions. He added that the India Pavilion will strive to become an ideal platform for the exchange of innovative ideas for the world to come together and take action. The India Pavilion at COP 21, Paris and COP 22, Marrakesh showcased climate change related activities under the themes of Climate Justice and Sustainable Lifestyles. This year at COP 23 , the India Pavilion from November 6-17, focuses on India’ s positive climate actions in adaptation, mitigation, clean technology innovation’ and renewable energy. In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please HYPERLINK mailto:contact:editorial@plusmedia.info contact:editorial@plusmedia.info
  13

 13 : COP21_UK283
Prince Charles has called for world leaders to “act now” on climate change at the opening of the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris. World leaders have gathered in the French capital for the start of crucial talks on climate change after half-a-million people marched in demonstrations worldwide calling for urgent action to curb rising temperatures. He said: “Your deliberations over the next two weeks are not only for today but for generations unborn.”I urge you to think of your grandchildren, as I do mine, and for those many millions without a voice.” Charles began his keynote speech in the French capital by expressing, in French, his profound horror at the terror attacks two weeks ago which killed 130 people and his untold sympathy for the grieving families and loved ones of those who died. “My heart is with the courageous French people in their hour of anguish,” he said in French. The Prince then told the summit: “Rarely in human history have so many people around the world placed their trust in so few. Charles gave the key note speech to delegates at the” COP 21 ” talks, before going on to receive the Prix Francois Rabelais from the Institut de France, for his commitment to organic farming and protection of the environment. He has also attended a private dinner hosted by the British Ambassador to France, Sir Peter Ricketts, with leading experts on the environment and development, including former US vice president Al Gore, World Bank president Dr Jim Yong Kim, and Lord Stern, who wrote a key report on the economics of climate change. Political leaders from 147 countries will address the conference throughout Monday and the summit will see negotiators from 195 countries try to finalise a new climate treaty over the next two weeks. Prince Charles said that before leaders gathered in Copenhagen in 2009 in an ultimately failed bid to secure a new climate treaty, he had tried to warn the best scientific evidence suggested humanity had 100 months to alter its behaviour “before we risk the tipping point of catastrophic climate change”. Some 80 of those months had passed, he warned, urging the world “we must act now”. “If the planet were a patient, we would have treated her long ago,” he said, adding the delegates must start emergency procedures “without further procrastination”. The conference, will, for the first time in over 20 years of UN negotiations, aim to achieve a legally binding and universal agreement on climate, with the aim of keeping global warming below 2’b0C. Security has intensified in Paris with major roads into the capital closed and thousands of police and soldiers guarding the hermetically sealed conference venue near Le Bourget airport, north of Paris. Over 6,000 more officers have been deployed in the city, still reeling from the coordinated attacks on restaurants, a concert hall and the national football stadium in which 130 people died. On Sunday clashes broke out between some protesters and police in the city with reports around 100 people were arrested. While in Belfast hundreds gathered in Writer’s Square as part of the worldwide demonstration. Among those taking part was Green Party leader Steven Agnew who said everyone had their role to play in tackling the global problem. He said: “Our purpose is to send a message internationally that we want a deal in Paris but locally, Northern Ireland has to play its part too. This is an issue that has not gone away.”It will impact on the people of Northern Ireland, albeit it will impact most on the world’s poorest. But, we all need to take action to mitigate this global problem.” Meanwhile James Orr, Friends Of The Earth Northern Ireland director, told the crowd they stood in solidarity with environmental campaigners across the world. He said: “This event that is happening in Paris is the most decisive event in the history of humanity. Unless we act in 2016 to reverse global warming, we are staring into the face of global genocide.” David Cameron is set to call for a robust deal that shows governments are serious about cutting carbon emissions. The Prime Minister is joining leaders including US president Barack Obama for the first day of the negotiations, with the aim to securing a global deal to stop “dangerous” climate change. Mr Cameron is expected to tell gathered leaders and negotiators that the issue of climate change is one that is too big for governments alone to deal with. And he will say that the conference must support the poorest countries, an issue he says the UK has led the way on by committing £35.8billion in this Parliament, up to 2020. But the Government has come in for criticism from many quarters in recent months on the home front for curbing support for renewables and energy efficiency measures. Just days before the conference began, ministers also announced they were axing a £31bn scheme to develop technology to capture and store technology from power stations, despite backing new gas plants.
  14

 14 : COP21_UK336
Click here for full-size image epa05048335 Brazilian President Dilma Vana Rousseff arrives for the opening of the UN conference on climate change COP21 , at Le Bourget, outside Paris, 30 November 2015. The 21st Conference of the Parties ( COP21 ) is held in Paris from 30 November to 11 December aimed at reaching an international agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions and curtail climate change. EPA/LOIC VENANCE / POOL MAXPPP OUT IMAGE ID: EPALIVE926282 HYPERLINK Subject to copyright. Click here for information regarding redistribution of this image.
  15

 15 : COP25_UK86
CLIMATE activists are meeting in Hereford city centre today as they join a nationwide campaign Extinction Rebellion groups from across Herefordshire will be bringing climate crisis ‘carols’ and street theatre to High Town between 10am and 3pm, in a bid to raise awareness of climate change in the run-up to the general election. The 12 Days of Crisis campaign coincides with the run-up to the December 12 election and the United Nations ’ climate change conference being held in Madrid. “Our action in Hereford aims to ensure all voters are aware of the facts and issues around the Climate Crisis, of the necessity for urgent action globally and locally, and also of the positions of every local candidate on how action should be taken to meet these challenges,” a campaign spokesperson said. Each of the party leaders will be theatrically represented at the High Town event, although a spokesperson said the Extinction Rebellion is not party political.. “We are calling on all party candidates to recognise the climate and ecological emergency and sign up to our Three Demands Bill,” the spokesperson said. “This calls for them to tell the truth, declare a climate and ecological emergency and communicate the urgency for change, to act now to halt biodiversity loss and reduce greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2025, and to upgrade democracy by being led by the decisions of a citizens’ assembly on climate and ecological justice.”
  16

 16 : COP22_UK358
Text of report in English by Karachi-based moderate, privately-owned Express Tribune newspaper website on 3 November Islamabad: Pakistan on Wednesday ratified the Paris Climate Change agreement. Federal Minister for Climate Change Zahid Hamid also announced that the cabinet had approved the Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs) and Climate Change Bill. Briefing the media over the background of the Paris agreement, Hamid said that an expert study group was constituted to formulate the INDCs report. “This report forecasts how much emission is expected as a result of future development till 2030,” he said explaining that the country’s current carbon emissions were 405 million tons, 135th highest in the world. “We intended to reduce our carbon emissions by 20 per cent but that will depend upon the availability of funds from the Green Climate Funds (GCF),” Hamid said, adding that Pakistan has demanded $42 billion to meet the country’s target. The minister further said that Pakistan would send the INDCs to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change secretariat before COP-22 , likely to be held from November 7 to 18 in Morocco. Hamid also informed the media that the cabinet had approved the Climate Change bill. Shedding light on the salient features of the bill, he said that according to the proposals a ‘Pakistan Climate Change Council’ would be established. The body would be a high climate change decision making body which will either be chaired by the prime minister or a person nominated by him. The federal government may appoint federal and provincial ministers, chief ministers, Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan chief secretaries as members of the council. Different projects will be prepared under this authority and will be implemented by the provinces. “We are among the few countries that will have this authority. It will also be responsible to implement Kyoto protocol and Paris agreement,” he added. He also highlighted Green Pakistan Programme and told the media that 20% target has already been achieved. He said that this is a red-letter day to achieve three major climate change developments. The bill, he said, has addressed 24 areas. According to the minister, a section of the bill deals with the cost of litigation. Currently, it is mandatory to pay the cost of litigation to the winning party. Hamid said that further legal reforms were on the cards and soon electoral reforms would also be introduced. Source: Express Tribune website in English 0000 gmt 3 Nov 16
  17

 17 : COP25_UK2
MADRID, Spain – What: Africa Day When: 10 December 2019 Where: Room 3, Hall 4 at IFEMA Conference Centre, Madrid Time: 18:30 to 20:00 Who: Jointly organized by the African Union Commission, African Development Bank (AfDB.org), and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa Officials, experts, activists and journalists are invited to take part and cover the Africa Day at the COP25 conference in Madrid on 10 December 2019, in room 3 at the IFEMA Conference Centre. During this event, leaders will provide an update of the global commitments made at the world’s leading climate change meeting. Africa Day marks Africa’s presence and participation at the various United Nations Climate Change Conference (UNFCCC) sessions since COP 17. Africa Day provides a platform for the continent’s decision makers and other stakeholders to engage in a dialogue that informs the region’s course of action around climate change. The discussions will touch on effective means of implementation (finance, capacity building, and technology development and transfer) of the Paris Agreement. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). Media Contacts: African Union Esther Azaa Tankou Head of Information Division Directorate of Information and Communication African Union Commission Email: HYPERLINK mailto:YambouE@africa-union.org YambouE@africa-union.org African Development Bank Gershwin Wanneburg Communication and External Relations Department African Development Bank Email: HYPERLINK mailto:g.wanneburg@afdb.org g.wanneburg@afdb.org Pan-African Parliament Ntsiuoa Sekete Senior Communications and Media Officer Pan-African Parliament Email: HYPERLINK mailto:ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org ntsiuoa.sekete@panafricanparliament.org (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  18

 18 : COP24_UK106
Schneider Electric, an energy management and automation company, is accelerating its contribution to meeting the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. To mark the occasion of COP24 in Katowice (Poland), from December 3 to 14, 2018, Schneider Electric is strengthening its commitments to become carbon neutral by 2030 using solutions that will help accelerate the transition towards a low carbon economy Carbon Neutral by 2030 “The climate emergency is growing, and new players are emerging to tackle the issue. The Paris Agreement signed three years ago provides us with a much clearer understanding of what is at stake. We’re now at a tipping point in limiting global warming to less than 2’b0C above pre-industrial levels to avoid a major ecological disaster,”according to Gilles Vermot Desroches, Sustainability Senior VP at Schneider Electric. In November 2015, on the eve of COP21, Schneider Electric announced its plan to become carbon neutral by 2030. To mark the occasion of COP24 , Schneider Electric is strengthening its commitments to fighting climate change based on three complementary initiatives: Before 2020: meet the 21 new commitments of the 2018-2020 Schneider Sustainability Impact barometer, outline a specific trajectory based on the assumption that Earth will breach the 2’b0C warming limit by 2050 and validate it through the Science Based Targets initiative, signed by the Group in 2016. Achieve carbon neutrality by 2030 at its plants and sites, in a cohesive industry ecosystem encompassing both suppliers and clients. To that aim, the Group will - - quantify carbon emissions saved by its customers, thanks to its EcoStruxure offers - switch to 100% renewable electricity - recover 100% of its industrial waste - double its energy productivity against a 2005 baseline Starting today and by 2050: cut its scope 1 and scope 2 carbon emissions by more than 50% vs. 2015, in line with the guiding principles of the Science Based Targets initiative. Energy Efficient Future According to Schneider Electric, what is good for the climate is good for the economy. The company has worked towards a low carbon economy offering numerous opportunities, from sustainable growth to job creation, improved public health and more. A number of Schneider Electric projects in Poland demonstrate this, including: Schneider Electric completed an electrical distribution modernization of the Saint Gobain glass factory in Dabrowa G’f3rnicza in 2017. The replacement and optimization of transformers, thanks to EcoSruxure Power Consulting Services, led to a 16% drop in energy losses (OPEX) in 2018 as well as a 30% drop in capital expenditure. Schneider Electric has also equipped the International Conference Center of Katowice, where COP24 will take place, and the Polish National Radio Symphony Orchestra Hall, location of the opening concert, with building energy management systems that significantly reduce their energy consumption while maintaining occupant comfort. About Schneider Electric Schneider Electric is leading the Digital Transformation of Energy Management and Automation in Homes, Buildings, Data Centers, Infrastructure and Industries. With global presence in over 100 countries, Schneider is the undisputable leader in Power Management - Medium Voltage, Low Voltage and Secure Power, and in Automation Systems. We provide integrated efficiency solutions, combining energy, automation and software. In our global Ecosystem, we collaborate with the largest Partner, Integrator and Developer Community on our Open Platform to deliver real-time control and operational efficiency. We believe that great people and partners make Schneider a great company and that our commitment to Innovation, Diversity and Sustainability ensures that Life Is On everywhere, for everyone and at every moment. Media Contact Company Name: ABC Private Limited Contact Person: Media Relations Email: HYPERLINK mailto:ajaysinghtanwar03@gmail.com ajaysinghtanwar03@gmail.com Phone: 8745857610 Country: India Website: HYPERLINK / Source: ~ www.abnewswire.com (Distributed by M2 Communications ( ~ HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  19

 19 : COP21_UK312
The United Nations will soon convene its annual Conference of the Parties, during which certain countries will commit to limits in greenhouse gas emissions. Because energy accounts for a substantial share of such human-induced emissions, the energy sector will be instrumental to success in implementing these commitments. Effective implementation will depend on sensible policy action. Fundamental to this is the acknowledgement of practical realities, one of which is the increasingly essential role played by coal in meeting the world’s energy needs. Coal accounts for nearly 30% of the world’s primary fuel consumption, and according to the International Energy Agency (IEA), global coal demand is now approaching that of oil. Another such reality is that in the 21st century, electricity is fueling a wave of urbanization and economic growth, lifting billions to a better quality of life. However, the energy that makes longer, healthier lives possible remains surprisingly in short supply for too many. According to independent sources, today there are still 1,300,000,000 people who do not have access to electricity. The application of advanced technologies in the use of the world’s coal resources presents a ready-today solution for UN negotiators and energy policymakers worldwide. Technology is the bridge to a low-emissions future for countries experiencing increasing electricity demand within their growing economies. It is also a bridge being built rapidly in scores of projects throughout India and China, in Japan and South Korea, across Southeast Asia, and on the African continent. The increased use of all forms of energy which drives economic development, and the betterment of life, can be reconciled with lower emissions through advanced energy technologies. In the case of coal, which fuels 40% of the world’s electricity, the foundation of this bridge is the development of high-efficiency, low emissions
(HELE) technologies for electricity generation. Deployment of HELE technologies will play an increasingly significant role in meeting greenhouse gas commitments. To illustrate, moving the current average global efficiency rate of coal-fueled power to supercritical levels could deliver the equivalent environmental benefit of reducing India’s CO2 emissions to zero. Policy measures are urgently needed to accelerate development of carbon capture and storage (CCS) technologies, which according to the IEA must contribute 1/6 of total emissions reductions by 2050. One option is financial incentives for the design and construction of HELE projects which are CCS-ready. Another is support for academic research initiatives on the clean utilization of coal. Given their similar greenhouse gas profiles, power generation with CCS technology should be provided with policy preferences comparable to those afforded to electricity projects fueled by solar and wind. Finally, financing support for HELE projects using coal is an important instrument for policymakers to encourage advanced technologies for electricity production. Multilateral funding sources are also beneficial, and can assist countries where the cost of deploying advanced technologies is prohibitive. Additional incentives should be provided for private sector investments which result in further increases in power generation efficiency. Contact: Peabody Energy Vice President Tel: HYPERLINK mailto:PR@PeabodyEnergy.com PR@PeabodyEnergy.com Sarah Kramer Director Tel: HYPERLINK mailto:PR@PeabodyEnergy.com PR@PeabodyEnergy.com [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  20

 20 : COP26_UK122
A swarm of drones was seized by police during Cop 26 in Glasgow to prevent them being flown near where world leaders and delegates were meeting.C2 Police Scotland have said that 27C2of the remotely-controlled flying vehicles were “grounded” by officers under rules restricting the airspace around Scotland’s largest city and much of centrail Scotland. Temporary no-fly rules for many types of aircraftC2were brought in to coverC2Glasgow and the west, parts of Dumfries and Galloway, Argyll and Bute, Stirling and Edinburgh and the Lothians.C2 While commercial aircraft were allowed to fly, the rules banned drones and hot air balloons. COP26 Thousands of protestors descended on the streets of Glasgow during the conference in November, which saw some of the world’s most powerful and influential in Scotland for the UN climate change conference. Police Scotland said on social media:
“During COP26 Police Scotland seized 27 drones being flown illegally by members of the public.”Officers were able to ground drones using new powers provided by the Air Traffic Management and Unmanned Aircraft Act 2021 before seizing them under airspace restrictions put in place to protect the conference. “We are continuing to work with the Home Office, CAA and NPCC on Operation Foreverwing, to ensure the UK public are educated on their responsibilities for safe drone use, and the consequences of misuse.” Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  21

 21 : COP26_UK299
THE COP26 climate summit is due to end today, with negotiators scrambling to salvage a significant deal on reducing global carbon emissions. Cop26 president Alok Sharma yesterday warned “time is running out” in Glasgow for the 180 countries at the summit to agree to a deal. While the summit will officially end today, Boris Johnson indicated negotiations could stretch into the weekend as happened in previous years. China and the US, the globe’s two largest CO2 emitters, on Wednesday agreed to team up to phase out fossil fuels in an unexpected deal. Pundits have said the deal provides hope that China could come to the table and agree to a deal to strengthen commitments made in the 2015 Paris Climate Accord. Sharma said proposals over reducing fossil fuel subsidies and accelerating reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are still crucial stumbling blocks. “Whilst we have made progress we are not there yet on the most critical issues. There is still a lot more work to be done - time is running out,” he said. “As I speak my ministerial facilitators and negotiators are rolling up their sleeves and working hard to find solutions to some of the most intractable issues.” The draft text of the Cop26 deal notes “with serious concern” that existing global agreements are insufficient to keep global warming to 1.5 degrees. The draft, which sets out what negotiators hope will be the outcome of Cop26 , asks countries to “revisit and strengthen the 2030 targets in their nationally determined contributions, as necessary to align with the Paris Agreement temperature goal by the end of 2022”. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  22

 22 : COP22_UK98
Nearly 50 countries vulnerable to climate change have agreed to use only renewable energy by 2050. The 48 members of the Climate Vulnerable Forum made the decision while attending the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Marrakech, Morocco. The Climate Vulnerable Forum was set up in 2009 and is made up of countries that are disproportionately affected by climate change. Members, including the likes of Ethiopia, Marshall Islands and Bangladesh, agreed to make their energy production 100 per cent renewable “as rapidly as possible” and by between 2030 and 2050 at the latest. Read more North Pole above freezing amid ‘sudden’ climate change How the US can ignore denialist Trump and keep fighting climate change 10 photographs to show to anyone who doesn’t believe in climate change Trump must not make ‘irrevocable choices’ on climate change says Kerry Low-lying Bangladesh is particularly vulnerable to rising sea levels while fellow members the Maldives and the Marshall Islands have already suffered heavy flooding linked to climate change. The forum also vowed to take action to help limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Mattlan Zackhras, Minister in Assistance to the President of the Marshall Islands told : “We are pioneering the transformation towards 100 percent renewable energy, but we want other countries to follow in our footsteps in order to evade catastrophic impacts we are experiencing through hurricanes, flooding and droughts.” Bangladesh’s adviser at the forum, Saleemul Huq, said:
“We shouldn’t see it as a burden, but an opportunity. Climate vulnerable countries can seize those opportunities,” Climate Home reported. Former Vice-President Al Gore described the forum’s statement as an ambitious vision for others to follow. According to The Guardian , he said:” [It] sets the pace for the world’s efforts to implement the Paris agreement. “These ambitious and inspiring commitments show the path forward for others and give us all renewed optimism that we are going to meet the challenge before us and meet it in time.” Many leaders around the world including current US Secretary of State John Kerry have expressed fears Donald Trump will put his climate change scepticism into practise and boycott key environmental targets. The 48 members of Climate Vulnerable Forumwho have agreed to the decision are: Afghanistan, Ha’efti, Philippines, Bangladesh, Honduras, Rwanda, Barbados, Kenya, Saint Lucia, Bhutan, Kiribati, Senegal, Burkina Faso, Madagascar, South Sudan, Cambodia, Malawi, Sri Lanka,Comoros,Maldives, Sudan, Costa Rica, Marshall Islands, Tanzania, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mongolia,Timor-Leste, Dominican Republic, Morocco, Tunisia, Ethiopia, Nepal, Tuvalu,Fiji, Niger, Vanuatu, Ghana, Palau, Viet Nam, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, Yemen, and Guatemala.
  23

 23 : COP24_UK33
FGR chairman Dale Vince is attending the United Nations COP24 event in Poland today to collect an award for the club’s environmental work and launch a new Sports for Climate Action campaign alongside the International Olympic Committee. Dale will speak twice at the conference to mark Forest Green Rovers’ Momentum for Change award, with a ‘fire-side’ chat alongside other winners today, before doing a talk tomorrow entitled Creating the Greenest Football Club in the World - Forest Green Rovers - after the club was recognised as a ‘Lighthouse Activity’ as the only club in the world to go carbon neutral through the UNFCCC. Sports for Climate Action is a new initiative, launching at an event today, which aims to encourage the global sports community to combat climate change in line with the goals of Paris Agreement - using the power of sports as a unifying tool to drive climate awareness and action among global citizens. Dale Vince said: “Working with FGR we thought we could reach a new audience of people - people who had not really been touched by eco messaging in the past. It’s quite an improbable combination I think - the environment and football but we’ve pulled it off. We’ve reached 3.5 billion people just in the last year through our message and we’ve engaged a lot with other sports clubs and organisations around the world so it’s been a great success.”Tackling climate change seems to me to be the most important thing in life really, other than family, but the most important thing to spend my time doing. For me it’s about sustainability and climate change is the biggest threat that we face.” Forest Green Rovers has been recognised by FIFA as the world’s greenest football club - bringing together football and environmental consciousness in a way no other football club in the world is doing - from our fully organic pitch and vegan matchday menu to our stadium solar panels and electric vehicle charge points. You can find out more about the club’s green initiatives, including plans to build the greenest football stadium in the world here.
  24

 24 : COP21_UK147
Prime Minister is attending the United Nations climate change conference Bill Shorten said it doesn’t matter what selfies he takes at the major event Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull’s attendance at the United Nations climate change conference would be little more than a opportunity to ‘take selfies’, Labor believes. Opposition leader Bill Shorten has claimed the Prime Minister’s appearance at the major event would not make up for his ‘low ambition’ to tackle climate change. It comes after Shorten was taken to task for a series of exercise selfies that prompted claims he had trumped former Prime Minister Tony Abbott’s infamous budgie smuggler shots. Mr Turnbull intends to head to Paris for the major global conference in December, armed with a 2030 emissions reduction target of 26-28 per cent on 2005 levels.~ But the Labor leader suggested this will fail to make a significant impact on climate change and will serve as merely a means of raising his social media profile. ‘It’s not a question of what places you visit or what selfies you take when you visit places, it’s a question of your actions,’ Mr Shorten told reporters in Alice Springs on Sunday.~ This week Mr Shorten was slammed for a series of images uploaded to his Instagram account showing him grinning beside a lake with captions boasting of exercise.~ A selection of Mr Shorten’s selfies were featured on ABC’s ‘spin-free’ show ‘Gruen’ was accompanied with the caption: ‘I call this series: all the people that are going to vote for me in the next election.’ Mr Shorten is not the first Australian politician to be lambasted for their dubious social media activity. Former Prime Minister Kevin Rudd uploaded a cringeworthy photo to Instagram titled: ‘Learning how to take selfies’ - pursing his lips in an awkward pout, much to the amusement of an onlooking mother. He would later snap a bizarre morning shaving mishap, complete with a tissue stuck to his bleeding cheek. Recently ousted Prime Minister Tony Abbott was also widely censured for a series of images on social media showing him proudly donning budgie smugglers.
  25

 25 : COP26_UK135
While the two-week gathering was never going to meet the expectations of many individuals and groups who are rightly incensed about the lack of progress towards net zero, it deserves to be acknowledged for breaking new ground and creating a catalyst for positive change. COP26 featured two key moments: the deal announced between the US and China to work together on climate change, and the coming together of 197 nations which signed the Glasgow Climate Pact, keeping the focus on limiting global temperature rises to a maximum of 1.5 degrees. The Glasgow Climate Pact also includes the commitment to phase down coal-fired power generation as part of the global energy transition. While harder measures to accelerate this process were opposed by India, China and South Africa, this marked the first time that we heard a direct reference to phasing out fossil fuels, an important step forward. This comes as further momentum is also being made across the oil and gas sector as part of the global energy transition. While the COP26 Many people are beginning to make choices in their daily lives that support the drive towards net zero, including making changes to their diet, their source of heating energy, or the type of car they drive. The business community is also showing real ingenuity and innovation in finding solutions, from the growing use of green hydrogen and other fossil fuel alternatives, to the development of new technologies that will help promote greater sustainability. Like many other players in the corporate environment, CMS is part of this sea change, committed to a programme of reducing and offsetting carbon emissions across our entire portfolio to net zero by 2025. Equity markets and banks are also heavily engaged, increasingly demanding companies have a strong commitment to ESG before they will provide investment. It’ s not surprising that investment in ESG funds went up 88 per cent to over $152bn in the fourth quarter of 2020. As a result, we’ re seeing increased levels of capital being driven towards emerging start-ups which are focused on finding innovative solutions to address environmental challenges. Additionally, during COP26 we saw the formation of the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ), a new body which is underpinned by the race to net zero. GFANZ has been set up to help governments design policy to facilitate the creation of new green assets for investment. The UN has also indicated it will increase scrutiny of private sector commitments to net zero via the UN Principles on Responsible Investment (UNPRI) reporting framework, a move that will further incentivise financial institutions to stand behind ESG claims with real world data and robust evidence. As significant as these all developments could prove to be, perhaps the most impactful legacy of COP26 We saw unprecedented levels of engagement in Glasgow with the mass mobilisation of individuals, civil society, and a range of other organisations all pushing for change. This collaboration further advanced public understanding of how climate challenges are impacting on people in different parts of the globe, and will undoubtedly put additional pressure on governments to adhere to and, in some cases, exceed their commitments towards net zero. While there were some notable disappointments in Glasgow, COP26 should be seen as a success where key agreements were made and vital partnerships were forged between nations. Far from being a ’ Cop Out,’ the 2021 UN climate change conference broke new ground and has created a strong platform to move forward. We hope to see a ripple effect from this momentum which will add extra impetus in delivering a positive future for our planet and all its people. Alan Nelson is a Partner with HYPERLINK CMS
  26

 26 : COP26_UK233
COP26 and encouraged them to achieve a successful outcome. Ambassador Whittingham said: The most important conference of our lifetime is underway in the UK. It is a conference that will likely determine what type of world we pass on to future generations. {22420222 Success will ensure our children and grandchildren can prosper. Failure could spell disaster for life as we know it. Known as COP-26 for short, the United Nations Climate Conference is one of the last opportunities countries will have to come together and solve mankind’ s greatest challenge - a challenge for its very survival. Six years ago the world saw the birth of the Paris Agreement, which was a milestone in global efforts to address climate change. It resulted in a binding agreement, uniting all nations to a common cause. But it was just the beginning. And yesterday the world began to converge on the great city of Glasgow for the COP26 the next and very crucial step on the path to preventing irreversible and catastrophic climate change. Honduras, as a vulnerable country, has a very important voice and its example can lead others to take important steps. Many climate-vulnerable countries are leading the way in reducing emissions. I congratulate Honduras for submitting early this year its updated NDC. Until 2030, Honduras is committed to carrying out adaptation and mitigation actions in the face of climate change. The country will aim to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 16%, restoring 1.3 million hectares of forests and reducing firewood consumption by 39%. Therefore, I congratulate the Honduran delegation, led by President Juan Orlando Hernandez, who is in Glasgow to join forces on all these issues. Honduras has shown important leadership in the fight against climate change and I encourage the country to work constructively with partners to achieve a successful COP26 . Share this page HYPERLINK u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.gov.uk%2Fgovernment%2Fnews%2Fcop26-and-honduras Share on Facebook HYPERLINK url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.gov.uk%2Fgovernment%2Fnews%2Fcop26-and- honduras&text=COP26%20and%20Honduras Share on Twitter Published 2 November 2021 Language: ~ENGLISH
  27

 27 : COP24_UK31
The 24th annual conference of the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, known as COP24 , opens on Monday, 3 December 2018, in Katowice, Poland. The Bank at the forefront of Climate Change and ready to ensure the voice of 54 African countries is heard. At the forefront of the fight against climate change in Africa, the African Development Bank, strongly represented in previous COP summits is, once again, present in Katowice to ensure that the voice of Africa is heard loud and clear in global climate negotiations. The Bank, representing Africa’s 54 nations, stands ready to defend the continent’s interests on the international arena. At COP24 , the Bank will therefore pursue its advocacy work and mission to help the countries of Africa address the issue of climate change and begin their transitions towards green growth and low-carbon development. To this end, Amadou Hott, the Bank’s Vice President for power, energy, climate change and green growth, will lead a delegation of climate change experts in various fields (water and sanitation, transport, urbanization and sustainable cities . . . ), able to shed light on the diversity and complexity of the issues raised by climate change. The Bank also has its own Pavilion, branded in its colors. An intense program, several conferences and daily round tables will be featured in the Pavilion, throughout the two weeks of the event. Africa, on the front line of climate change impact The degree of urgency is especially acute in the case of Africa, one of the regions of the world most vulnerable to the effects of climate change, as evidenced again by the terrible drought in East Africa in 2017 and the drought endured by South Africa in 2018. In the 10-year period from 1995 to 2015, the African continent has suffered 136 episodes of drought, 77 of which have been in East Africa alone. Drought, flood, rising sea levels, extreme weather events that threaten people’s food security, ‘climate migrants’ - the list goes on, and the ‘bill’ for climate change proves a high one for the African continent, despite its contributing less than 4% of world greenhouse gas emissions. Of the 10 countries in the world considered most threatened by climate change, 7 are in Africa: Central African Republic, Chad, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and South Sudan. And climate change is even responsible for shaving off 1.4 points of GDP in Africa every year. As the president of the African Development Bank, Akinwumi Adesina, has repeatedly said, it is urgent to act. At stake: the future of the continent - and its development and most importantly, the survival of the entire planet. ‘With climate change there are no winners and no losers. Either we all win together, or we all lose together,’ Adesina often says. COP24 will take place from 3 to 14 December 2018, in Katowice, Poland. Download the Bank’s COP24 Pavilion programme here. Follow all the Africa and Bank Pavilion COP24 news on our dedicated web site here. Follow us on these social networks: Twitter, Facebook et Instagram. And download our mobile app to make sure you don’t miss a thing. Chawki Chahed [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  28

 28 : COP25_UK65
Next year’s United Nations Climate Change conference (COP26) will be HYPERLINK held in Glasgow , with Boris Johnson in the chair. It will be the largest gathering of world leaders in Britain since the opening ceremony for the 2012 Olympics in London, in which Mr Johnson also played a leading role. Unlike the Olympics, conditions are hardly propitious for a successful UN conference in 2020. The COP25 HYPERLINK worst outcomes in 25 years of climate negotiations , Mr Johnson will have to display ~ HYPERLINK hitherto unknown diplomatic depths HYPERLINK undercutting green standards Madrid was a depressing example of how not to do international diplomacy. This is not the fault of Spain, which took over the running of the conference at short notice after Chile, which had been due to host, HYPERLINK pulled out following bloody unrest at home. Understandably distracted, Chile’s lack of leadership saw a coalition of states with strong links to fossil fuel industry - ~ HYPERLINK the United States, Brazil, Australia and Saudi Arabia - seize the opportunity to undermine the talks. Their success was ~ HYPERLINK to render meaningless HYPERLINK climate activism . If this climate denialism persists we will pay a heavy price. Under the Paris agreement 190-odd countries have plans which, if implemented, would still see Earth’s temperature rise by 3.2 degrees. Scientists have warn that beyond HYPERLINK 1.5 degrees of warming there’s a real risk of extreme heat, drought and floods becoming the norm. Next year countries will have to bridge the gap between the policies now in place and what is required to stop global heating with a round of new, bolder climate pledges. As the impact of the emergency becomes more evident, so does the scale of the challenge ahead. The UN now says that countries must ~ HYPERLINK increase their ambitions fivefold Mr Johnson does not want a rerun of the UN summit in Copenhagen in 2009, which ended in failure amid clashes between 100,000 environmental protesters and Danish police. To ensure that the HYPERLINK Glasgow conference passes off smoothly, he will first have to show that he is cleaning up his act at home. At present the government won’t hit carbon reduction targets ~ HYPERLINK after 2028 , hardly inspiring confidence that the UK will reach net-zero by 2050. This needs more than just a new government department. Mr Johnson’s newfound green zeal can be politically useful: his manifesto ~ HYPERLINK promised to spend £36bn on improving the energy efficiency of 2.2m social homes, which may be allocated - brazenly - to the constituencies of new northern Tory MPs. But whatever his own approach, Mr Johnson’s fate is in the hands of others. Most important are US voters who might deliver a Democratic president just days before the Glasgow summit takes place. This would halt the Trump White House’s attempt to withdraw from the Paris agreement. EU leaders hope to strike a bargain with Beijing HYPERLINK next September , so efforts to cut emissions remain meaningful even without the US. The Paris agreement has Mr Johnson facing one way on climate, but Brexit has him facing the other way. He will have to choose, perhaps symbolically by cracking down on City ~ HYPERLINK financing for dirty coal abroad. The world is not short of ideas to realise climate goals. We urge and encourage the prime minister to secure a global response that matches the scale of the crisis.
  29

 29 : COP23_UK177
MINNEAPOLIS, Minnesota-General Mills has joined leading companies in an agreement to end deforestation, protect national parks from illegal cocoa production and develop alternative livelihoods for affected smallholder farmers in Cote d’Ivoire and Ghana. The two countries produce nearly two-thirds of the world’s annual supply of cocoa. The far-reaching joint Frameworks for Action, led by the World Cocoa Foundation, was announced today at the UN Climate Change Conference ( COP23 ) in Bonn, Germany. Cocoa is one of General Mills’ 10 priority ingredients, which the company has committed to 100-percent sustainably source by 2020. More than 70 percent of the cocoa General Mills buys is grown in West African countries including Cote d’Ivoire and Ghana. ‘Deforestation is a significant challenge, but by aligning and working together we can help put a stop to it and positively impact climate change by rehabilitating the land,’ said John Church, chief supply chain officer for General Mills. ‘We also recognize there are systemic labor issues in the cocoa supply chain, and we understand it will take industry-wide collaboration to make improvements. Having the national and local governments, who are key to addressing the issues, at the table from the beginning is key.’ The Frameworks for Action was developed through an extensive, multi-stakeholder process that brought together two national governments, private sector - including farmers and farmers’ organizations - national and international civil society organizations, development partners, and other stakeholders in Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana and globally. ‘The Frameworks for Action announced in Bonn, and signed by visionary companies including General Mills, protects and restore forests that have been degraded, accelerates investment in agricultural productivity and engages communities about the importance of this work to their long-term well-being,’ said Richard Scobey, president of the World Cocoa Foundation. ‘Most of the deforestation in the cocoa sector in West Africa is a result of poor farmers trying to earn a living by going into protected areas to cut down trees to grow cocoa. This means that we must focus on community development, community empowerment, and making sure that farmers’ livelihoods are taken in to account and respected.’ The Framework is centered around three themes: Forest protection and restoration: This covers the conservation of National Parks and Reserves, improving the forest cover in the rural domain, as well as restoration of Forest Reserves that have been degraded by human activities, in particular encroachment by cocoa farms among other factors. Sustainable production and farmers’ livelihoods: This covers sustainable intensification and diversification of production to increase farmers’ yields and income to reduce pressure on forests. Community engagement and social inclusion: This covers social safeguards through civil society and community engagement. ‘This framework will help advance much of the work that we are already doing in these regions to improve the sustainability of cocoa production and foster greater economic vitality for cocoa-growing communities,’ said Church. ‘It is our view that a greater share of the benefit of more socially and economically sustainable cocoa production practices should accrue to the people who produce the crop. This framework will help better implement that across the region.’ For more information on General Mills’ commitment to sustainably sourcing cocoa, visit its 2017 Global Responsibility Report and Taste of General Mills blog. About General Mills General Mills is a leading global food company that serves the world by making food people love. Its brands include Cheerios, Annie’s, Yoplait, Nature Valley, Fiber One, Haagen-Dazs, Betty Crocker, Pillsbury, Old El Paso, Wanchai Ferry, Yoki and more. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA, General Mills generated fiscal 2017 consolidated net sales of US $ 15.6 billion, as well as another US $ 1.0 billion from its proportionate share of joint-venture net sales. Contact: Mollie Wulff Tel: 763-764-6364 Email: HYPERLINK Media.line@genmills.com [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  30

 30 : COP21_UK40
Taipei, Taiwan - Delta announced that it joined the ‘Road to Paris’ initiative by the Carbon Disclosure Project and has committed to a 30% reduction in its electricity intensity by the year 2020, which follows a 50% reduction already achieved by the company over the past five years. Delta Electronics will actively participate in a series of events that reflect its commitment to sustainability during the upcoming COP21 . Delta will present its 21 green buildings, which it has constructed over the past 10 years, at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. In addition, Delta will organize a side event, which has been approved by the United Nations COP21 General Secretariat, to share its knowledge and achievements in energy savings and the construction of green buildings. Mr. Ping Cheng, chief executive officer of Delta Electronics, emphasized, ‘Delta has a long-term commitment to sustainability. From 2010 to 2014, we successfully reduced our electricity intensity (electricity use per product value) by 50% compared to 2009 and in the past 10 years we have constructed 21 green buildings. Delta is now enhancing our commitment by engaging in the CDP’s Road to Paris initiative and promising a further 30% reduction in electricity intensity by 2020, and we are expanding our commitment to the whole group.’ Ms. Shan-Shan Guo, chief brand officer of Delta Electronics and executive director of Delta Electronics Foundation, said, ‘Delta is honored to have received permission by the UN COP21 General Secretariat to organize a side event at the Climate Generations areas during COP21 . After 10 years of implementing green buildings, we wish to share our experience by organizing a side event and hosting the ’Delta 21 Green Buildings at COP21 Exhibition’ at the Grand Palais, and show the world the efforts of a corporation that is deeply committed to sustainability.’ Since 2007, the Delta Electronics Foundation has attended the UN Climate Change Conferences annually, and in 2014, it hosted a side event in which Delta introduced their experience on rebuilding the Namasia Elementary School. Over the years, Delta’s efforts to reduce carbon emissions have been recognized by international organizations such as the CDP, which selected Delta for its Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) in 2014-the only company chosen from the Greater China region. For the past five consecutive years, Delta has also been a member of the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) World Index and was a leader in the ICT Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Components in 2015. 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP21 ) will be the most important climate change conference in the past 10 years. We expect the participating countries to reach an agreement to reduce carbon emissions. During COP21 , Delta will use its advanced ‘edge-blending’ projection capabilities to exhibit its entire portfolio of green buildings inside the Grand Palais in Paris, France. The Delta Electronics Foundation will also organize a side event to share Delta’s contributions on green buildings and carbon footprint reduction. Contact: Delta Group 186, Ruey Kuang Road Neihu, Taipei 11491 Taiwan, R.O.C Tel: +886-2-8797-2088 Email: HYPERLINK mailto:news@delta.com.tw news@delta.com.tw [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  31

 31 : COP24_UK170
The talks were part of series of meetings set up to develop guidelines for countries to implement the Paris Climate Change Agreement, an important element in ensuring transparent and practical climate action across the globe. Work on preparing the guidelines has been ongoing since 2016, the year after the Paris Agreement was signed by practically every country in the world. The guidelines are due to be adopted at the annual climate change conference, COP24 , to be held in the Polish city of Katowice in December. If that goal is to be reached, urgent work is needed in the coming weeks, said Patricia Espinosa, Executive Secretary of UN Climate Change: “In Bangkok, there has been uneven progress on the elements of the climate change regime that countries are working towards. Clearly, we need to increase climate action significantly. Clearly, fully implementing the Paris Agreement is the way to do this in a balanced, coordinated manner that leaves nobody behind.” Country representatives have been working on ways to increase action to deal with the impacts of climate change, increasing support for developing countries £d- in the form of finance, technology cooperation and capacity-building - and, crucially, limiting global temperature increase this century to well below 2C, ideally limiting the increase to 1.5C through emission reductions. Key concerns include the way in which actions are regularly and transparently communicated, clarity on financing the actions, and how to reflect the contributions and responsibilities of developed and developing countries. On this point, Ms. Espinosa was clear that the Paris Agreement strikes a delicate balance to bring all countries together: “We must recognize that countries have different realities at home. They have different levels of economic and social development that lead to different national situations.” she said. The negotiations are taking place at a time when the world has witnessed flood-related deaths, livelihoods wiped out by droughts and expensive infrastructure lost across large stretches of the developed and the developing world. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  32

 32 : COP22_UK38
An historic first for the Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Agreement on Climate Change (COP), a Water Action Day was the highlight of the third day of COP22 in Marrakech, with November 9, 2016 dedicated to water. Several events were held throughout this Water Action Day, including a high level panel organized by the host country of this global summit on climate change in the United Nations blue zone. The African Development Bank (AfDB) was represented by its Director for Water Supply and Sanitation, Mohamed El Azizi in the discussions panel. The Moroccan Junior Minister for Water, Charafat Afilal; Water Ministers Barmou Salifou, Niouga Ambroise Ouedraogo and Sidick Abdelkerim Haggar from Niger, Burkina Faso and Chad, respectively, as well as the Director of the Moroccan Office of Electricity and Potable Water (ONEE), Ali Fassi El Fihri, took part in this roundtable’s lively discussions. Water mentioned in 85% of INDCs Water is at the heart of many challenges posed by climate change, and calls for as many solutions. Even a slight increase in the earth’s temperature will have serious consequences: climate variability is increasing and its impacts are more numerous, more serious and longer lasting, particularly extreme climate events (floods and droughts, for example). Such phenomena lead to increased water pollution, higher incidence of malnutrition, more migration and more significant losses, particularly in infrastructure and agricultural production. More than 85% of Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs) presented by countries participating in the Paris Agreement cite water as a key adaptation issue, the UNFCCC noted during COP22 . During their presentations, the panellists addressed the entire range of issues and challenges related to water that affect African countries: access to potable water and sanitation services, irrigation, agriculture and food security, health issues, lack of water infrastructure, as well as medium and long term perspectives on climate change. ‘Water insecurity leads to heightened conflicts, tension among populations, and causes migrations that threaten global stability,’ stated Minister Charafat Afilal. ‘Africa is the continent that is most vulnerable to climate change,’ said Mohamed El Azizi, Director of the AfDB’s Water Supply and Sanitation Department. He added, ‘It’s about providing justice, in the context of climate financing, to this continent, which has suffered the consequences of climate change without having been responsible for it. African countries are concerned with the complex and difficult access to climate financing, particularly for fragile countries.’ Large water adaptation projects financed by AfDB in Morocco The Bank has financed large projects for climate change adaptation in Morocco. Among these are the water transfer project between the Rabat and Casablanca watersheds that impacts the daily lives of 5 million people, the Marrakech region water supply project, benefitting 2 million people, and the Tetouan region potable water supply security project via the transfer of water from the Tangier Med port facilities to the Moulay El Hassan Bel Mehdi dam. ‘I would like to congratulate the Bank for its ability to react, responding quickly to our financing needs for this project,’ stated ONEE Director Ali Fassi Fihri. ‘[It] has ensured service continuity for potable water in the area, because without supplementary service prior to the end of 2016, the entire Tetouan area would be confronted with a catastrophic water shortage.’ On the Water Action Day, Morocco used the opportunity to officially launch a new initiative, ‘Water for Africa’. This initiative began prior to COP22 , in July 2016 in Rabat, during the International Conference on Water and Climate, organized by the country in partnership with the World Water Council. The goal is to mobilise the international community to develop an emergency action plan on water to confront climate change in Africa and thereby mobilise the necessary financial resources. The Blue Book on Water and Climate was also released today, the result of reports and recommendations formulated during the conference held in Rabat last July. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  33

 33 : COP21_UK228
December 5, 2015 United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon announced today at the UN climate change conference ( COP21 ) that a broad group of organizations will partner in 2016 to maintain momentum for multi-stakeholder climate implementation. “I am heartened by the significant and growing coalitions that are emerging to tackle the challenges of climate change and realize new opportunities,” Mr. Ban underlined at the global event taking place in Paris, on a day dubbed “Action Day.” “I am pleased to be joined by so many key partners to scale climate action efforts and make them sustainable,” he added. The Secretary-General, joined by groups such as the World Bank, the Global Environment Facility and the Compact of Mayors, and individuals including Michael Bloomberg - the UN Secretary-General’s Special Envoy for Cities and Climate Change - will co-sponsor a “Climate Action 2016” summit of leaders from government, business, cities and localities, civil society and academia next 5 and 6 May in Washington, D.C. According to a press release issued by the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) - the organizer of the conference - this high-level gathering will complement ongoing implementation efforts and catalyze actionable, concrete deliverables in specific high-value areas, including: cities; land use; resilience; energy; transport; tools for decision makers; and finance. “[The summit will] show that the things that were talked here in Paris are actually happening on the ground,” Bob Orr, a Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on climate change, told the UN News Centre in an interview. “The number and the depth of the coalitions that are organized to deliver action on climate whether through forestry, through industry, through cities, all the different channels need to move forward as far and as fast as they can,” he added. “So the Secretary-General is not only ensuring we have this robust universal agreement, but that we have the coalition in the field to deliver the goods.” Mr. Orr noted that the meeting is taking place in the United States’ capital as all the partners joining the Secretary-General at the 2016 summit agreed that Washington, D.C. is the “best stop” as it is home to a number of important international institutions and financing vehicles. Meanwhile, the world’s attention is turned towards the Paris-Le Bourget site north-east of the French capital, where government representatives have been meeting since Monday to reach a new universal climate agreement to limit global temperature rise to below two degrees Celsius.
  34

 34 : COP22_UK235
November 4, 2016 Berlin - Germany’s current climate targets are too weak and fall short of meeting the Paris Climate Agreement. Meanwhile, the German government is on track to missing even these weak climate targets, a new study by the Energy Watch Group and the Association for the Study of Peak Oil and Gas (ASPO) Germany shows. The Paris Agreement is entering into force today. Yet, the former climate leader Germany is most likely to take off to the world climate conference COP22 in Marrakesh without a Climate Action Plan in place - and is turning into a climate sinner. “The federal government needs to completely rewrite its Energy Concept and climate targets. The greenhouse gas emission reduction target of 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels is inadequate to meet the Paris targets”, Hans-Josef Fell, co-author of the study, President of the Energy Watch Group, and Member of the German Parliament 1998-2013 says. “Current climate protection measures do not bring about any significant emissions reduction. Global temperature is increasing at unprecedented speed. Given the consequences we already observe today, any further increase of global temperatures - 1.5’b0C or less - should be unacceptable. The target should be a cooling to preindustrial levels”, Fell adds. The new study ‘German Climate Policy - From Leader to Laggard’ proves that the emissions reduction pathway in Germany has been surpassed every year since 2010. Especially the transport, electricity and agricultural sectors have contributed to this transgression. According to the government projections, in its most ambitious scenario, the transport sector for example will exceed the set 2035 targets by a striking 91%. “The emissions reduction pathway from 2010 was already exceeded years ago. With the new more ambitious targets of the Paris Agreement in place, additional and stronger measures are now needed. The aim should be a zero-carbon economy by 2030”, J’f6rn Schwarz, author of the study and chairman of ASPO Germany says. A global zero-carbon economy should go hand in hand with the creation of effective carbon sinks and requires a range of measures on the policy and technical level. The study shows that 100% renewable energy as well as a functioning circular economy is essential. The study authors recommend including climate protection into the constitution; creating incentives for private investments into climate change protection; and promoting research and education in this field. “This study clearly shows that the current German energy policy removes any possibility to meet the Paris climate targets. Compared to the ambitious measures of other countries, Germany is increasingly lagging behind on its climate protection action. The federal government is jeopardizing the livelihoods of current and future generations, and the competitive advantage of the country”, Dr. Volker Quaschning, Professor for regenerative energy systems at HTW Berlin, and peer reviewer of the study says. The study is currently only available in German. You can find it here. Press Contact: Energy Watch Group, Tel: +49 30 609 898 810, HYPERLINK mailto:presse@energywatchgroup.org presse@energywatchgroup.org
  35

 35 : COP22_UK191
PUBLIC HEALTH COMMUNITY TO ADOPT AN ACTION AGENDA ON CLIMATE-RELATED HEALTH RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES PREGNY-CHAMBESY, Switzerland – Q & A with Key Spokespersons WHAT : The Second Global Conference on Health and Climate 7-8 July in Paris will showcase how the public health community will support implementation of the COP 21 Paris Agreement on climate change in order to advance a healthier and more sustainable society. The Conference will be opened Hon French Minister of State for Development and Francophonie, French and Moroccan Ministers of Environment and the Queen of Spain, as well as high-level WHO and UN Climate officials. Some 300 government ministers from WHO Member States, as well as health practitioners and climate change experts are expected to attend. The conference will include sessions on finance, mitigation and adaptation - illustrating how public health can benefit from accelerated climate change actions. The final Action Agenda will be delivered to the Government of Morocco, for consideration in the lead up to COP22 . Key spokespersons will be available to take your questions. More information is available at the following link: who.int/globalchange/conferences/en The full agenda is available at dropbox.com/s/20s3ryakxf32v2l/WHO_ConferenceFullProgramme_4%20July%20DCO.pdf Hon. Mr. Andr’e9 Vallini, Minister of State for Development and Francophonie, France H. E. Ms. S’e9gol’e8ne Royal, Minister of Environment, France and President COP21 H.E. Dr Hakima El Haite, Minister of Environment, Morocco. Dr Flavia Bustreo, WHO Assistant Director-General, Family, Women’s and Children’s Health. Dr Richard Kinley, Officer in Charge, United Nations Framework for Climate Change (UNFCCC). Dr Maria Neira, WHO Director, Department of Public Health, Environmental and Social Determinants of Health. WHEN: 10h30-11h00h, Thursday 7 July 2016. WHERE: Ministry of Foreign affairs and International development, Centre de conference minist’e9riel, 7 rue Gutenberg (Paris 15’e8me). Media accreditation to the Second Conference on Health and Climate is required prior to the Question and Answer session. Registration is open as from Tuesday 6 July 3pm-6pm at the Ministry of Foreign affairs and international development. On Thursday accreditation will open from 07h45-09h00. Please also see information note to journalists dropbox.com/s/8xc08ru9lw8y4f0/Information%20for%20the%20press.pdf
(Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  36

 36 : COP23_UK159
Interview:~Mohammed bin Saleh Al Sada What advantages does Qatar enjoy in the liquefied natural gas (LNG) industry? MOHAMMED BIN SALEH AL SADA How is the supply and demand of energy sources projected to change in the coming years? AL SADA : It is widely accepted by prominent energy analysts that global gas consumption will increase by over 50% between now and 2040. Natural gas is the fastest-growing fossil fuel and will remain the centrepiece of the energy equation. Within the natural gas segment, the LNG market is expected to grow even faster, at approximately 4.5% per annum in the same period. The market share of LNG in international gas trade is expected to grow from the current level of 33% to more than 50% by 2035, bringing its share to the same volume as piped gas. In the medium term, strong growth is expected to push total global LNG demand to about 314m tonnes per annum (tpa) by 2020. LNG supply is set for a substantial rise, and production capacity is expected to reach 400m tpa by 2020, as additional US and Australian supply enters the market. Therefore, despite the strong growth in demand, the market will experience oversupply over the next few years. However, very few new LNG projects are to come on-line in the earlier part of the next decade and, as a result, the global LNG market will start to tighten, potentially facing a supply shortage beyond 2025. Qatar intends to remain a leading player in the future as well, meeting market demand - hence the recent directive to raise the country’s LNG production by 30% to reach 100m tpa and be fully operational by 2024. What steps are the government taking towards developing the renewable energy segment? AL SADA : The government believes that greenhouse gas emissions are a global challenge that can be mitigated by using fuels for power generation that emit less CO . Fossil fuels are expected to still account for 75% of the world’s energy mix in 2040, and gas will continue to be the fuel of choice. It is a very practical and potent energy source that acts as a bridge, allowing for a smooth transition to a lower-carbon future. Environmental protection is a key pillar of Qatar National Vision 2030. Qatar is a signatory of the COP21 UN Conference on Climate Change , and a number of public and private investments are driving developments in the solar energy sector. For example, we have the facilities to produce high-purity polysilicon for both the domestic and international market. Many buildings are equipped with solar panels, and one upcoming project is the development of a solar power project of up to 500 MW. How can public-private partnerships contribute to the success of the energy sector? AL SADA: The country aims to achieve sustainable development through the participation and growth of both the public and private sectors. Within the region, Qatar has been the first to deregulate and encourage private investment. Power generation and water production services were separated and privatised in the year 2000, when Qatar Electricity and Water Company (QEWC) was established. Since then, several additional integrated power and water facilities have been built by QEWC to accommodate the country’s increasing demand for power and water. These provide opportunities for private sector financiers and investors.
  37

 37 : COP24_UK260
A coalition of countries led by the US is “roadblocking” negotiations on financing the commitments made in the 2015 Paris climate agreement, thereby threatening to bring progress to reduce damaging greenhouse gas emissions to a halt, a charity has warned. A proposal by the US, Japan and Australia, during negotiations at a climate summit in Bangkok, involves removing specific rules for how countries should account for climate finance contributions. As part of the Paris accord, developed countries agreed to help less developed countries achieve their emissions targets by jointly contributing $100bn a year by 2020. Without adequate financing, developing countries will struggle to deal with both the increasing impacts of climate change, and in adopting greener technologies. The proposed changes to the agreement, now under consideration, could mean in future, commercial loans would count towards a developed country’s climate finance obligations. The setback comes days after a top UN official warned urgent action was required to avoid the “catastrophic effects” of climate change, and warned governments are not doing enough to meet their climate targets. “One point five is the goal that is needed for many islands and many countries that are particularly vulnerable to avoid catastrophic effects. In many cases it means the survival of those countries,” she said. “With the pledges we have on the table now, we are not on track to achieve those goals.” ActionAid International, which is monitoring the Bangkok talks said: “With a little over 48 hours remaining, developed countries, led by the US have roadblocked negotiations on financing.” “Most alarming is the complacency of other developed countries as the US seeks to undermine this vital element of the Paris accord. The organisation added:”Even parties that want to be seen as climate champions, like those within the EU and Norway, are hiding behind the US and remaining silent.” The Paris agreement set out grand ambitions to move the world away from fossil fuels and avert the worst consequences of climate change. But the plan was vague on details, and after the US and then Australia distanced themselves from the agreement, there has been greater pressure to take decisive and binding action. The Bangkok conference was convened to decide the rules that will govern the accord, but as it draws to a close it looks as though less will have been achieved than organisers hoped. The summit was designed to provide the essential framework for the Paris agreement, ahead of the UN’s climate change conference ( COP24 ) in Poland at the end of the year. The US has taken a leading role in the effort to abandon financing agreements, and blocked talks over long-term future financial plans to help limit global emissions, despite the Trump administration announcing its intention to withdraw from the Paris Agreement back in 2016. Provisions in the agreement mean the US withdrawal will not take effect until 2020. “The contribution of the US negotiators at the talks is actively hindering progress at this critical stage,” ActionAid International said.
  38

 38 : COP23_UK203
From Gdansk to Katowice, over 1,000 kilometres of Polish railways will be modernized and upgraded with the help of a EUR 650m loan from the European Investment Bank (EIB) announced today. EIB funds will help finance 15 different segments of railway infrastructure across the country, improving train speeds and passenger comfort, and saving nearly 50,000 tonnes of CO2 per year by shifting traffic from road to rail. The segments are part of the Polish Master Plan for Railway Transport to 2030. The works will be implemented by the state owned Polish rail infrastructure manager PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe over the period 2016-2023 and will be mostly located on the Trans-European Transport Network (‘TEN-T’), including the core Baltic-Adriatic Corridor. They include the modernisation of the railway accesses to the major Polish ports like Gdansk, Gdynia, Swinoujscie and Szczecin, and works on the ‘Centralna Magistrala Kolejowa’ (‘CMK’), the only high speed line in Poland, between Warsaw and Katowice. Other project components are spread throughout the Polish territory, notably in the industrial areas in the south east, and are expected to support economic growth coherently with the EU’s and Poland’s wider convergence and cohesion objectives. ‘The improvements on Polish railways over the past decade have been enormous. I’m glad that the EIB has been able to spearhead change by providing long-term affordable finance for the network including the current loan,’ said EIB Vice President Vazil Hudak, overseeing the bank’s operations in Poland. ‘This latest transaction is particularly important in the light of Poland’s growing international role in climate action efforts and its presidency of COP24 in Katowice next year’. The EIB has financed Polish railways with investments worth 2.8bn over the past 13 years. This latest loan represents a variant of the railway financing model used so far, as it does not simply follow the usual pattern of co-financing of EU grants, but it also includes a number of smaller projects which do not otherwise benefit from the EU support. ‘Modernization of the railway infrastructure is an example of exemplary cooperation between the Polish Government and the EIB in the area of supporting projects in our country. Thanks to this contract and the very favourable financial conditions, I am confident that the implementation of the project will contribute relevantly to the sustainable development of infrastructure in Poland, which is very important to the economy and life quality of Poles’, said Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. ‘Funds provided by the EIB will enable the improvement of travel comfort on long distance routes and in regions and agglomerations. Railway will become more competitive mean of transport. Transport of goods will be facilitated, among others on the connections to ports. Modernization of important routes on the Trans-European Transport Network (’TEN-T’), including the core Baltic-Adriatic Corridor will positively influence the development of international trade exchange’ said Mr. Ireneusz Merchel, President of PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe SA. Notes for editors: On November 9th, 2017, the EIB has signed with the Polish Ministry of Finance an agreement for a EUR 650m loan aimed at financing 15 schemes of railway infrastructure upgrading, modernisation and selective renewal covering an overall length of around 1,150 km. The schemes are part of the Polish Master Plan for Railway Transport to 2030 approved by the Polish government. The project will help achieve climate action goals thanks to the modal shift of freight and passenger traffic from road to rail. The schemes will allow for greenhouse gas emissions savings estimated by EIB at 47,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent in an average year of operation over a 30-year assessment period. About the European Investment Bank (EIB): The European Investment Bank, the European Union’s long-term lending institution, is committed to supporting implementation of the Paris Climate Agreement and backing climate-related investment around the world. The EIB, active in more than 130 countries, is the world’s largest financier of climate-related investment and largest single issuer of green bonds. A quarter of all EIB financing supports climate action and the EIB is committed to providing USD 100 billion for climate related investment in the five years up to 2020. At COP23 in Bonn, EIB climate experts and senior management will highlight the EIB’s broad support for climate investment in diverse sectors, announcing a number of new policy initiatives and project investments. A regularly updated agenda of EIB events and contacts can be found here. Andrea Morawski mailto:a.morawski@eib.org a.morawski@eib.org +352 4379 - 83427 +352 691284349 Press Office HYPERLINK mailto:press@eib.org press@eib.org +352 4379 - 21000 [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  39

 39 : COP26_UK160
Glasgow Chamber of Commerce has been representing the interests of business and the city since 1783 and, as cited by US Special Climate Envoy John Kerry at the CBI Scotland dinner during COP26 , it was instrumental in the industrial revolution. In its current form, we took on the role of Climate Chamber in the build-up to and duration of COP26 As an anchor player in Team Glasgow, we’ve supported the Sustainable Glasgow Board to oversee the city’s plans for achieving net-zero carbon by 2030, while emphasising the importance of a circular economy and ambition to become a circular city by 2045. An integral element of this is the city’s Greenprint for Investment which sets out how we’ll reach those 2030 targets. It includes the SEC expansion plan and, after doing such a tremendous job of hosting COP26 , we hope this ambition is realised. While as a city we look to our own sustainable targets, knowledge transfer and connecting with other cities is going to be incredibly important if we’re to successfully reach 2030 targets. The global challenge we face is shared and so disseminating wisdom and lessons learned with our international counterparts will be vital to embedding growth and innovation within the economy. During COP26 The prospect of opportunity is entirely more motivational and we found the business community very much engaged in a COP focused on action. We believe that cities are key to driving the changes needed, with integrated efforts on net zero, circular economy and a broader move to a just transition.Collaboration is a must if Glasgow is to succeed here, and our businesses are already leading the way. Fifty of our members engaged with HRH The Prince of Wales during a reception at Kelvingrove to recognise those tirelessly working towards a circular and net-zero economy, and we engaged with and supported a whole host of businesses in the Blue and Green Zones and throughout events across the city. Mention has been made by EY of the prospect of a Conference of Business to follow COP26 , seizing the moment to scale ongoing business engagement. With the World Economic Forum and other global actors, we’re also proud to back a collaborative call to action that reinforces the need for a circular economy shift, alongside net zero, to truly realise the innovative solutions needed to tackle the climate challenge, and as Bill McDonough, a leader in sustainable development and design, stated, there must be a tone adjustment to doing more good than doing less bad. As this pivotal year draws to a close, we consider how to capitalise on the many connections and developments which have been made through COP26 . As with the industrial revolution, we are firmly placed to drive forward this step change and will be looking to the various Glasgow declarations on how we take further bold and courageous actions to deliver on these prospects which have Glasgow’s name at their core. Alison McRae is senior director of Glasgow Chamber of Commerce. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  40

 40 : COP22_UK245
Worldwide Climate change The International Energy Agency has published its assessment that pledges made under the Paris climate agreement will not be enough to limit the global temperature rise to 2 degsC. The agency says that it has studied the implications on the energy sector of the Paris Agreement and forecasts that warming could be limited to 2.7 degsC if all pledges were adhered to. The Paris Agreement came into force in November. At that time national representatives met in Morocco at the 22nd Conference of the Parties ( COP22 ) to discuss the details of the deal. Over 100 countries have now ratified the Agreement, but IEA executive director Dr Fatih Birol said that fossil fuels are still a threat to the fight against climate change in spite of the significant growth in renewable energy in recent years. “The fossil fuel era is far from being over,” said Dr Birol. “Fossil fuels currently have an 81% share in the energy mix and if all the Paris pledges are implemented, this share will go down by 2040, but only to 74%. The IEA’s analysis, outlined in its latest World Energy Outlook (WEO), shows that although coal and oil’s share in the energy mix will decline, natural gas use will rise. Coal demand is projected to barely grow in the next 25 years, but global oil demand will continue to grow, IEA believes, mainly because of a lack of alternative fuels for road freight, aviation and petrochemicals. LNG will also drive a”second gas revolution”, according to Dr. Birol, thanks to LNG infrastructure coming on-line in new supply countries such as Australia, the USA, Mozambique and Tanzania. The IEA has forecast a 50% rise in natural gas consumption to 2040, and says that LNG will re-shape the natural gas markets by overtaking pipeline gas in terms of trade and redefining the nature of contracts and pricing. The WEO 2016 report also shows the rapid rise of renewable energy across the globe. “Renewables is a growth story,” Dr Birol said. “We have seen a major expansion in renewables, led by wind and solar and across all countries.” In the IEA’s WEO 2016 main scenario, nearly 60% of all new power generation capacity to 2040 comes from renewables and by 2040 the majority of renewables-based generation is competitive without any subsidies.
“Renewables make very large strides in coming decades but their gains remain largely confined to electricity generation,” said Dr Birol. “The next frontier for the renewable story is to expand their use in the industrial, building and transportation sectors where enormous potential for growth exists.” The IEA notes that limiting the global temperature rise to 2 degsC will require the energy sector to be carbon-neutral by the end of the century. A more ambitious target of 1.5 degsC would require it to be carbon-neutral by 2040. “The 2 degsC target is not out of reach but will require an acceleration of climate policies and a harder push on renewables,” said IEA’s Laura Cozzi, one of the report’s authors.
  41
