 1 : COP26_UK341
By BBC Monitoring The 2021 United Nations climate change conference ( COP26 ) that was held in Glasgow between 31 October and 13 November has received limited and largely sceptical coverage in Kremlin-controlled media. Furthermore, the tone and rhetoric used by state TV channels, as well as by many newspapers, were harsher than those adopted by Russian officials representing the country at the COP26 forum. Scant TV coverage In the primetime news bulletins on Russia’s three main national TV channels, the Glasgow conference was covered only at the start of its first week (1-2 November), when President Vladimir Putin addressed the forum via a video link, after which the event dropped off the primetime news agenda altogether. After the first week of the conference, the main TV networks’ weekly news programmes were roundly dismissive of the COP26 summit. Presenter Dmitry Kiselyov on official Rossiya 1 TV’s flagship Vesti Nedeli programme, described it as a “bad circus”, which the West was using to “lecture everyone” and to “seek its own advantage”. The channel’s UK correspondent said the COP26 event had been an “unavoidable failure” because there was “hypocrisy” everywhere. “Lies, mutual accusations and a public divvying up of billions - this is all that the Scottish conference in climate will be remembered for,” Centre TV, a national TV channel owned by the Moscow city government, proclaimed. “This event is, in effect, a small-scale repeat of the story that the world has been living through during the pandemic: a problem that - one would have thought - should bring everyone together because it is a common calamity has, on the contrary, set everybody even more at odds with each other,” Gazprom-Media’s NTV channel said, adding that “green-world slogans that are popular with Western politicians do not stand the test of reality”. Papers sceptical too In the press, assessments of the Glasgow forum were largely sceptical too. An editorial in the privately-owned centrist Nezavisimaya Gazeta noted that “the meeting in Glasgow, which brought together the leaders of most of the countries, has shown that contradictions are only deepening”. In an op-ed for a popular weekly tabloid, Argumenty i Fakty, pro-Kremlin pundit Sergei Markov summed up the atmosphere at the Glasgow conference as “utter duplicity”. He said: “Looking at Western leaders, most people realise: they are not only lying but are also doing enormous damage to the environment.” “The leitmotif of COP26 is utter mistrust of its participants towards each other,” the leftist nationalist Zavtra newspaper proclaimed. Critical of the West, it also sounded a dismissive note about developing countries, saying that “countries without resources and technologies will arrive [at the conference] with cap in hand and post-colonial grievances”. Pro-Kremlin Izvestia daily concluded that COP26 “did not live up to the high expectations placed upon it”. Official statements At the same time, statements made by Russian officials at the COP26 conference were far more positive. In a statement circulated on 14 November, Russian presidential envoy on climate issues Ruslan Edelgeriyev welcomed what he described as “the main achievement of COP26”, namely the agreed rules for implementing the Paris Agreement. He also noted that Russia had managed to secure the terms of forest climate projects it had sought. A representative of the Economic Development Ministry on the Russian delegation told the Kommersant daily that the Climate Pact adopted in Glasgow “had turned out to be balanced”. While Economic Development Minister Maxim Reshetnikov told a TV interview in the penultimate day of the forum that he felt more optimistic about its outcomes than he had been at the start. “What matters to us is that we are present here with our very clear policy. We understand our interests,” he said. See also Analysis: Russia’s views on climate change Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  2

 2 : COP22_UK16
November 14, 2016 Over the next two weeks of COP22 , the Africa Pavilion will feature a dynamic program of round-tables, conferences and bilateral meetings, where key issues of adaptation and mitigation; green industrialization; agriculture; transport; health; water and sanitation; biodiversity and innovation will be discussed MARRAKECH, Morocco – The 22nd Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ( COP22 ) kick-started Monday, 7 November in Marrakesh (Morocco). A collaborative partnership between the Africa Development Bank (AfDB), the African Union Commission (AUC), the Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) and the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) established the Africa Pavilion in the blue zone of the COP22 village, dedicated to engagement, networking and dialogue. The Pavilion also aims to provide a platform for the voices of the continent to be heard. The Pavilion embodies the united front of an Africa “speaking with one voice” in articulating its interests given the high stakes of climate change negotiations Over the next two weeks of COP22 , the Africa Pavilion will feature a dynamic program of round-tables, conferences and bilateral meetings, where key issues of adaptation and mitigation; green industrialization; agriculture; transport; health; water and sanitation; biodiversity and innovation will be discussed. Both COP21 President and French Minister of the Environment, Energy and the Sea, in charge of international climate negotiations, Segol’e8ne Royal and COP22 President and Moroccan Minister of Foreign Affairs Salaheddine Mezouar, visited the Africa pavilion in the early days of COP22 . The pavilion is drawing crowds with its unique architecture and interesting features such as living green walls. Several African heads of State and high level officials are also expected to visit the pavilion during the High level week of COP22 , and especially on Africa Day, Wednesday 16 November 2016. COP22 is the fourth COP to take place on African soil - the second time in Morocco
- presenting an important opportunity to place special emphasis on the continent’s needs and proposals. Africa is among the world’s regions most vulnerable to climate change and its key priorities include ensuring that global ambitions and historic responsibilities regarding means of implementation, particularly predictable financing, to facilitate low carbon climate resilient development are in line with the continent’s development goals. COP22 is dubbed the COP of action, providing a clear roadmap for the implementation of commitments made in the Paris Agreement which came into force on 4 November 2016.
  3

 3 : COP23_UK47
New Delhi: Press Information Bureau, Government of India has issued the following press release: The India Pavilion at COP 23 was inaugurated by Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan at Bonn in Germany today. The Minister is leading the Indian delegation, which is participating in the 23rd Conference of Parties ( COP-23 ) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC) being held at the Bonn, Germany from November 6-17, 2017. The inauguration of India Pavilion was attended by the partner ministries, government departments, multi-lateral and bilateral partners, industry associations, Non-Government Organisations and Civil Society Organisations and others. India’ s theme for COP 23 Conserving Now, Preserving Future takes India’ s message forward. He expressed happiness over the organization of the India Pavilion at COP-23 and added that India has been ambitious in its climate change actions, and expects other countries also to be ambitious based on their historical responsibility on the basis of equity and Common But Differentiated Responsibilities. He invited all participants to be active members of discussions, deliberations and sessions scheduled at the India Pavilion. Additional Secretary, MoEF&CC, Shri. Arun Kumar Mehta, said that over the next 11 days, India will be organizing 20 sessions, covering issues important for climate change adaptation and mitigation. He added that presentations and panel discussions involving experts from both public and private spheres will be hosted. In his address, Joint Secretary MoEFCC, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, welcomed the Minister and expressed the hope that through its activities, the India Pavilion will create awareness about India’ s positive climate actions. He added that the India Pavilion will strive to become an ideal platform for the exchange of innovative ideas for the world to come together and take action. The India Pavilion at COP 21, Paris and COP 22, Marrakesh showcased climate change related activities under the themes of Climate Justice and Sustainable Lifestyles. This year at COP 23 , the India Pavilion from November 6-17, focuses on India’ s positive climate actions in adaptation, mitigation, clean technology innovation’ and renewable energy. In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please HYPERLINK mailto:contact:editorial@plusmedia.info contact:editorial@plusmedia.info
  4

 4 : COP24_UK244
C’f4te d’Ivoire is moving forward with plans to build its first biomass power stations, part of wider efforts to respond to rising domestic energy demand and increase the role of renewables in the energy mix. In July Ivorian energy company Soci’e9t’e9 des Energies Nouvelles signed a memorandum of understanding with the US Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) to develop a CFA154bn ((EURO)234.8m) power plant fuelled by cocoa waste. As part of the agreement, USTDA will provide a $996,000 grant for feasibility studies, which are expected to be completed by 2019. Located near the southern city of Divo, the facility is expected to have an installed capacity of between 60 MW and 70 MW and become operational in 2023. In addition to saving an estimated 250,000 tonnes of CO2 per year, the project will also help the country reduce the amount of cocoa waste it produces - currently estimated to be around 26m tonnes annually - and provide a new source of revenue for cocoa farmers. In tandem with the Divo project, Biokala, a subsidiary of local agro-business group SIFCA, and the France-based energy firm EDF are moving forward with a project to build a CFA105bn ((EURO)160.1m) palm oil biomass plant in Aboisso in the county’s south-east. Once it becomes fully operational in 2020, the plant is projected to convert around 400,000 tonnes of palm oil into an estimated 288 GWh of electricity per year. Biomass and hydropower key to meeting climate change commitments The development of the biomass projects comes amid HYPERLINK governmental efforts to diversify the country’s energy mix and increase the role of renewables . As a signatory of the COP21 UN Conference on Climate Change , C’f4te d’Ivoire has committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 28% by 2030, as well as increasing the share of electricity generated by renewables from current levels of 20% to 42%. As of 2017 some 80% of total electricity generation was generated by natural gas, 19% by hydropower and around 1% by renewables, according to the Ministry of Petroleum, Energy and Renewable Energy Development. To that end, in November last year the country’s largest hydroelectric power plant opened at Naoua Falls , near the city of Soubr’e9. The development of the 275-MW project was undertaken by the China-based Power Construction Corporation, with financing coming from the Export-Import Bank of China and the Ivorian state. The operation of the plant has since been transferred to the state-owned utilities body operator CI-Energies. In addition, four other large-scale hydropower projects are slated for completion by 2030, adding an additional 595 MW of capacity, while the government has unveiled plans to construct a series of smaller hydropower facilities, which are expected to add 81 MW over the period. Renewables expansion to open up private investment opportunities The transition towards renewables and the subsequent increase in electricity generation is also expected to lead to $9bn worth of new investment opportunities for the private sector by 2030. The government plans to HYPERLINK increase overall domestic generation capacity to 4000 MW by 2020 and 6000 MW by 2030, up from current levels of around 2200 MW. Of this, the World Bank-backed International Finance Corporation (IFC) estimates biomass capacity alone to total 1200 MW, while CI-Energies puts the figure at 1650 MW. Unlocking this potential presents opportunities for private-sector investment, given that the authorities have set a maximum selling price of CFA62 ((EURO)0.09) per KWh for biomass, considerably higher than the CFA24.78 ((EURO)0.04) per KWh that the government pays to purchase energy from the Azito thermal power plant in Abidjan. However, according to the IFC’s recent report on C’f4te d’Ivoire, the renewable energy sector presents several challenges for stakeholders: procedural regulations regarding the confirmation of the availability, security and calorific testing of biomass supply still need to be clarified. Additionally, the IFC report states that biomass projects necessitate the involvement of the Ministry and Agriculture, and the procedures to do so are not streamlined, causing most projects, such as the Abiosso plant, to be implemented on a case-by-case basis.
  5

 5 : COP23_UK80
NICOLA Sturgeon will be among the political leaders to take part in the United Nations climate change conference which begins in Bonn on Monday. The First Minister and Scotland’s Environment Secretary, Roseanna Cunningham, will meet represent-atives from other governments as well as scientists, industry groups and environmental campaigners when they travel to the former west German capital during the course of the two-week event. The conference’s key objective is to set out how countries can implement the Paris accord to curb climate change - despite Donald Trump’s announcing his intention to pull the US out of the agreement. The 23rd Conference of the Parties (COP) will be presided over by Fiji, one of the small island nations particularly vulnerable to the effects of global warming. Researchers say extreme weather like the events of recent months - including hurricanes in the Carib- bean, heatwaves in Europe and flooding in south Asia - will become more frequent as a result of climate change. To prevent catastrophic consequences, they say countries must make concerted efforts to shift the global economy away from fossil fuels. Cunningham said: “The Scottish Government recognises that the need for international collaboration is greater than ever, which is why the First Minister and I will be attending UNFCCC [United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change] Bonn 23, taking the opportunity to build relations with our international neighbours, and ensure Scotland continues to lead by example in tackling climate change. We believe Scotland and the rest of the developed world has a clear moral duty to ensure our lifestyles do not cause harm to the world’s poorest people.” Friends of the Earth Scotland will be among a host of environmental groups attending the conference. Head of campaigns Mary Church said: “Current targets are woefully inadequate to stop warming at 2C, let alone the 1.5C that countries most vulnerable to the impacts of global warming need to have any chance of surviving climate chaos.”Rich countries who have done the most to cause the climate crisis are still not cutting emissions fast enough, but a growing global movement is forcing them to start facing up to their responsibility, and take action. Friends of the Earth will use the talks to call for an end to the use of polluting fossils fuels and a rapid and just transition to low-carbon econ-omies around the world. For Scotland this means ramping up ambition in our new climate act to zero emissions by 2040, and plan for a fair shift away from North Sea oil and gas.” Trump announced he will pull out of the 2015 accord unless he can an secure a better deal for the US.
  6

 6 : COP21_UK47
Philipsburg - Carbon Mercantile Exchange (CMX) has commenced the development of a thirty (30) megawatt (mW) solar facility in St. Maarten. The entire project will see the construction of six facilities with a nameplate capacity of 5mWs each. The project consists of 120,000 PV modules, 1000 inverters and will create over 200 domestic jobs.
“It’s a big step, not only in respect to the power purchase agreement but in the future development of additional resorts and hotels,” stated Trevor Ducharme, President of CMX. “Additional to the clean energy being generated the project will also produce valuable carbon offsets (credits), which are in demand. We’re extremely excited to be involved in a project of this size and credibility and are looking to use this same model on multiple other island’s in the Caribbean.” The solar project is privately financed by a series of international infrastructure funds hoping to reduce the island’s carbon footprint and lower the cost of electricity. The project will allow savings of an estimated US$ 220 million in imported fossil fuels and entice future developments. “The timing is ideal and the opportunity was well received by our global partners. Our clients needed an international solution to adjusting their business to combat climate change and we were very pleased with the response. More and more corporations are investing in commercial opportunities like this in the Caribbean to lower their corporate carbon footprint,” stated Ducharme.
“From here all of the attention is focused on the United Nations Climate Change Conference and what regulations will be implemented on emissions and carbon pricing.” The United Nations Climate Change Conference will be held in Paris, France from November 30th to December 11th. This will be the 21st yearly session of the Conference of the Parties ( COP 21 ) to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the 11th session of the Meeting of the Parties (CMP 11) to the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. The conference objective is to achieve a legally binding and universal agreement on climate and establish a price on carbon. For more information, contact HYPERLINK mailto:info@globalcmx.com info@globalcmx.com Media Contact Company Name: CMX Contact Person: Executive Email: HYPERLINK mailto:info@globalcmx.com info@globalcmx.com Country: Canada Website: HYPERLINK Source: ABNewswire (Distributed by M2 Communications ( ~ HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  7

 7 : COP24_UK297
Katowice, Poland - Today at COP24 in Poland, The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and Circle Economy, in collaboration with Arcadis, released a report describing the changes required for the circular economy to become mainstream in the built environment. The report was developed with ABN AMRO,
ArcelorMittal, CRH, DSM, EDGE, Enel, Madaster, Rabobank, Renewi, Saint-Gobain, Bureau SLA, Solvay and Stora Enso. The ‘Scaling the Circular Built Environment” report explains the way leaders in both business and government can help level the playing field for circular business models, which are currently hindered around the world. Key recommendations include: Remove key financial, legal, technological and political barriers that prevent companies from adopting circular business models Ensure companies are able to access the market equally and plan for long-term investment and innovation Accelerate the development of relevant regulations and legislations to support new business models under the circular economy For both private and public sector to start collaborating across the value chain and start integrating circular principles in standard purchasing practices The circular economy presents a huge potential for global economic growth while accelerating society towards a sustainable future and helping to meet the goals of the Paris agreement to mitigate climate change. Within the built environment the opportunities are evident: this sector consumes over 40% of the world’s yearly extracted resources and it is responsible for a vast environmental footprint that contributes 33% of global carbon emissions. Moving from a linear model of take-make-dispose to a circular model where buildings, facilities and materials enter a longer lifecycle and reuse model, offers enormous economic and environmental advantages. However, this transition is hampered by significant barriers that are slowing down the shift in changing roles and business models that are necessary for the transition. ‘This report shows the economic opportunity that circular built environment brings to companies in terms of avoided costs, reduced resource risks, and environmental benefits. Circular materials, products and services must become the new normal in buildings. To achieve this, we need bold leadership from companies and policy-makers who can implement solutions to support and scale the circular economy.’ said Maria Mendiluce, Managing Director of Climate, Energy and Circular Economy at WBCSD. ‘Accelerating the circular built environment can make a considerable contribution to carbon reduction, but it requires a shift in mindset and culture. For this to be effective we need new business models, supported by new valuation methods and standardization, along with new forms of collaboration and co-creation that will help to take the circular economy mainstream. However, companies cannot do this alone. Governments will need to favour circular solutions over business as usual, as this now impedes rapid progress. Besides that, it is important not to wait and try to make your projects as circular as possible. You already can do a lot, we know out of experience,’ said Joost Slooten, Director Sustainability for Arcadis. The built environment has an oversized environmental footprint. ’ We urgently need to accelerate the transition to the circular and low carbon built environment. Governments should develop long-term policies that encourage innovations and investments to bring these to scale. Business needs to adopt new valuation methods, new forms of collaboration and digital innovations to improve information transfer along the building value chain.’ Said Roy Antink, SVP, International Policy Coordination, Sustainability for Stora Enso. The circular economy has been estimated as a USD $ 4.5 trillion opportunity. The paper describes the opportunities, business models and changes that are necessary to leverage this opportunity in the built environment. It also identifies the barriers that are currently hampering the transition and concludes with recommendations to both the public and private sectors on ways to level the playing field and scale the potential of the circular built environment. Contact: Tel: +31 (0)20 2011 011 Email: mailto:info@arcadis.com info@arcadis.com [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  8

 8 : COP23_UK159
Interview:~Mohammed bin Saleh Al Sada What advantages does Qatar enjoy in the liquefied natural gas (LNG) industry? MOHAMMED BIN SALEH AL SADA How is the supply and demand of energy sources projected to change in the coming years? AL SADA : It is widely accepted by prominent energy analysts that global gas consumption will increase by over 50% between now and 2040. Natural gas is the fastest-growing fossil fuel and will remain the centrepiece of the energy equation. Within the natural gas segment, the LNG market is expected to grow even faster, at approximately 4.5% per annum in the same period. The market share of LNG in international gas trade is expected to grow from the current level of 33% to more than 50% by 2035, bringing its share to the same volume as piped gas. In the medium term, strong growth is expected to push total global LNG demand to about 314m tonnes per annum (tpa) by 2020. LNG supply is set for a substantial rise, and production capacity is expected to reach 400m tpa by 2020, as additional US and Australian supply enters the market. Therefore, despite the strong growth in demand, the market will experience oversupply over the next few years. However, very few new LNG projects are to come on-line in the earlier part of the next decade and, as a result, the global LNG market will start to tighten, potentially facing a supply shortage beyond 2025. Qatar intends to remain a leading player in the future as well, meeting market demand - hence the recent directive to raise the country’s LNG production by 30% to reach 100m tpa and be fully operational by 2024. What steps are the government taking towards developing the renewable energy segment? AL SADA : The government believes that greenhouse gas emissions are a global challenge that can be mitigated by using fuels for power generation that emit less CO . Fossil fuels are expected to still account for 75% of the world’s energy mix in 2040, and gas will continue to be the fuel of choice. It is a very practical and potent energy source that acts as a bridge, allowing for a smooth transition to a lower-carbon future. Environmental protection is a key pillar of Qatar National Vision 2030. Qatar is a signatory of the COP21 UN Conference on Climate Change , and a number of public and private investments are driving developments in the solar energy sector. For example, we have the facilities to produce high-purity polysilicon for both the domestic and international market. Many buildings are equipped with solar panels, and one upcoming project is the development of a solar power project of up to 500 MW. How can public-private partnerships contribute to the success of the energy sector? AL SADA: The country aims to achieve sustainable development through the participation and growth of both the public and private sectors. Within the region, Qatar has been the first to deregulate and encourage private investment. Power generation and water production services were separated and privatised in the year 2000, when Qatar Electricity and Water Company (QEWC) was established. Since then, several additional integrated power and water facilities have been built by QEWC to accommodate the country’s increasing demand for power and water. These provide opportunities for private sector financiers and investors.
  9

 9 : COP24_UK84
David Quinn’s claim that “diesel cars emit lots of carbon dioxide and will have to be phased out” is without scientific foundation (“Road to a carbon tax is too bumpy for Leo”, Comment, last week). Anyway, carbon taxes will not solve this problem but will add to the cost of living and increase the price of our exports. We could change to electric propulsion, but this is not a viable answer at the present time. It cannot apply to the trucking and heavy-machinery industry, and “range anxiety” means it is viable only in city cars. To go electric in the future, we must put in place comprehensive infrastructure, starting with generation. But can we create the capacity to supply the cumulative demands of electric cars, city buses, home and workplace heating, industry and so on? Or will this be dependent on “when the wind blows”, to quote former minister Pat Rabbitte when asked about continuity of supply in the face of an ESB strike. Jack Leighton Crossmolina, Co Mayo Driving to despair While Quinn’s piece was interesting and thoughtprovoking, I suspect the assertion that “diesel cars emit lots of carbon dioxide” may be misleading. Those cars that use petrol instead of diesel in a spark-ignition engine emit higher levels of CO2 and lower levels of particulate matter and other pollutants. Cars that burn diesel in a compression engine emit lower levels of CO2, but alarmingly high levels of chemicals and particulate pollutants that are harmful to human health - especially respiratory health. The mass migration to petrol in the UK has probably yielded better air quality, but led to an escalation in the volume of greenhouse CO2. Donal Hoban, by email Roadblock ahead I have been wondering why the Irish government has been sitting on its hands regarding climate-change action. Quinn’s article, unfortunately, answers the question in simple terms. What government knows how to make truly carbon-busting policies politically and publicly acceptable? And a more rhetorical question: when will we wake up and realise the steam train that is severe climate change coming down the track? I believe the scientists who contributed to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, and I believe the human race is in for challenging times. The sooner we act, the more we mitigate against catastrophe. Peter McMahon, by email Hiding the facts Given global temperatures over the past eight months, we can now see the temperature increase of 2015-16, at the time of the Paris agreement, was a natural El Ni’f1o type driven by geothermal heating. Yet this was the false foundation on which Paris 2015 and the IPCC’s 2018 special report were built. There is, therefore, no risk of the “potential environmental catastrophe” that Quinn mentions. Rather, there is widespread suppression in the media of any research findings contrary to the dogma that CO2 emissions are a dangerous threat. Tony Carey Enniskerry, Co Wicklow Asleep at the wheel There was not a word in your newspaper on COP 24 , the 24th UN conference on climate change in Katowice, Poland. Not a word on the reports by many conference speakers on the continuing rise of surface and sea temperatures around the globe, or the continuing failure by the world’s big powers to curb rising carbon HYPERLINK www.emissions.No report of the tense standoff between Russia, America and Saudi Arabia on the one side and the rest of the world’s nations on the other. Apparently such things are of trifling interest to your readers. One wonders how bad the climate crisis has to become before The Sunday Times wakes up and pays attention. Cormac O’Raifeartaigh Dunmore East, Co Waterford Fuming over car choice Quinn hit the nail on the head, as we can see from taking a look at the latest conference in Poland. I got a diesel car because I wanted to be
“green”, but now suddenly I’m a polluter. Fintan Ryan Borris, Co Carlow
  10

 10 : COP23_UK195
Ever since the ancient Greeks speculated a continent must exist in the south polar regions to balance those in the north, Antarctica has been popularly described as remote and extreme. Over the past two centuries, these factors have combined to create, in the human psyche, an almost mythical land - an idea reinforced by tales of heroism and adventure from the Edwardian golden age of ‘heroic exploration’ and pioneers such as Robert Falcon Scott, Roald Amundsen and Ernest Shackleton. Recent research, however, is casting new light on the importance of the southernmost continent, overturning centuries of misunderstanding and highlighting the role of Antarctica in how our planet works and the role it may play in a future, warmer world. What was once thought to be a largely unchanging mass of snow and ice is anything but. Antarctica holds a staggering amount of water. The three ice sheets that cover the continent contain around 70% of our planet’s fresh water, all of which we now know to be vulnerable to warming air and oceans. If all the ice sheets were to melt, Antarctica would raise global sea levels by at least 56m. Where, when, and how quickly they might melt is a major focus of research. No one is suggesting all the ice sheets will melt over the next century but, given their size, even small losses could have global repercussions. Possible scenarios are deeply concerning: in addition to rising sea levels, meltwater would slow down the world’s ocean circulation, while shifting wind belts may affect the climate in the southern hemisphere. Recent storm surges following hurricanes have demonstrated that rising sea levels are a future threat for densely populated regions such as Florida and New York. Meanwhile the threat for low-lying islands in areas such as the Pacific is immediate and acute. Multiple factors mean that the vulnerability to global sea level rise is geographically variable and unequal, while there are also regional differences in the extremity of sea level rise itself. At present, the consensus of the IPPC 2013 report suggests a rise of between 40 and 80cm over the next century, with Antarctica only contributing around 5cm of this. Recent projections, however, suggest that Antarctic contributions may be up to ten times higher. Studies also suggest that in a world 1.5-2’b0C warmer than today we will be locked into millennia of irreversible sea level rise, due to the slow response time of the Antarctic ice sheets to atmospheric and ocean warming. We may already be living in such a world. Recent evidence shows global temperatures are close to 1.5’b0C warmer than pre-industrial times and, after the COP23 meeting in Bonn in November, it is apparent that keeping temperature rise within 2’b0C is unlikely. So we now need to reconsider future sea level projections given the potential global impact from Antarctica. Given that 93% of the heat from anthropogenic global warming has gone into the ocean, and these warming ocean waters are now meeting the floating margins of the Antarctic ice sheet, the potential for rapid ice sheet melt in a 2’b0C world is high. In polar regions, surface temperatures are projected to rise twice as fast as the global average, due to a phenomenon known as polar amplification. However, there is still hope to avoid this sword of Damocles, as studies suggest that a major reduction in greenhouse gases over the next decade would mean that irreversible sea level rise could be avoided. It is therefore crucial to reduce CO levels now for the benefit of future generations, or adapt to a world in which more of our shorelines are significantly redrawn. This is both a scientific and societal issue. We have choices: technological innovations are providing new ways to reduce CO emissions, and offer the reality of a low-carbon future. This may help minimise sea level rise from Antarctica and make mitigation a viable possibility. Given what rising sea levels could mean for human societies across the world, we must maintain our longstanding view of Antarctica as the most remote and isolated continent.
  11

 11 : COP23_UK75
Text of report in English by Nepalese newspaper The Kathmandu Post website on 7 November As one of the countries most vulnerable to climate change, Nepal will draw the attention of international community during the global climate change conference, also called Conference of Parties ( COP23 ), that kicked off in Bonn, Germany, on Monday [6 November]. The Nepali delegation led by Minister for Population and Environment Mithila Chaudhary will take part in several events, sharing Nepal’s concerns on the effects of climate change that the country confronts. The twenty-third session of the COP to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) is a global event which brings together policy makers, delegates, scientists, lobbyists and private sectors. Nepal has prepared a detailed status paper especially for the COP23 . It will be sharing its climate change experiences at the event, according to Bishwo Nath Oli, secretary at the Environment Ministry. “We have prepared the status report including our experience with climate change over the years and what we expect from the international community,” said Secretary Oli. “The status paper was necessary also for making our participation in the conference effective.” The document, drafted after a series of consultations with stakeholders and experts, urges implementation of previous agreements especially the Paris Agreement, widely seen as a historic accord that pledges to limit global temperature rise below 2 degrees Celsius. As a party to the UNFCC, Nepal signed the Paris Agreement in April last year. The Legislature-Parliament ratified the accord in October the same year. Global leaders converging at the COP23 are expected to push for implementation of the 2015 Paris Agreement by developing guidelines, incorporating various issues like adaptation, emission reduction, transparency of action and support, technology transfer and capacity-building of the poor and highly vulnerable countries like Nepal. Besides, the global event is also supposed to finalise the Paris Agreement rule book to be adopted at the COP24 in Poland next year. In Nepal’s status paper, the country has urged the international community to build momentum and trust among themselves for preparing the rule book guiding implementation of the Paris Accord. Nepal, besides stressing timely adoption of the rule book and implementation of the accord, has asked for technical and financial support it deserves as a Least Developed Country (LDC). The status paper incorporates topics such as programmes under the Paris Accord, mitigation measures, adaptation, means of implementation, and cross-cutting agendas like climate and gender. Under these areas, the paper enlists Nepal’s experiences and furnishes demands while fighting climate change. On the fund for climate-vulnerable countries, the status paper reads, “While mitigation is important, adaptation finance must also be prioritised. Green Climate Fund should have more focus on adaptation for LDCs. The Least Developed Countries Fund is important for countries like Nepal; hence, the developed countries should urgently pledge to the Fund and support the actions in LDCs.” Citing its disasters like recent flooding, Nepal has also requested for separate funding for loss and damage, urging the COP23 to provide space to discuss funding requirements for vulnerable countries as compensation for loss and damage. The international access to climate finance has always been difficult for LDCs. The status paper suggests that simplified, easy and direct access of support must be in place so that the LDCs can access the necessary resources for climate actions. Nepal has also drawn attention of the developed world for support in the field of technology transfer and capacity-building, which has been sluggish so far. “The Paris Committee on Capacity-building has been established to support countries like Nepal. However, not much progress has been made under this heading. The support mechanism for LDCs must be expedited,” reads the document. Source: The Kathmandu Post website, Kathmandu, in English 7 Nov 17
  12

 12 : COP21_UK332
Midway through the Paris talks, a draft agreement has been produced. It contains all manner of parentheses, with scope for a variety of options to fill them when a final deal is signed off by the end of this week. Among the most critical areas left open is the question of how much support rich countries (who contributed to global warming as they developed) should provide to poor ones (who are being asked to shun “dirty” fuels, such as coal, on their own route to prosperity). Narendra Modi, the Prime Minister of India, has warned that it would be “morally wrong” for nations such as America and Britain to duck out of providing countries like Bangladesh with compensation, as the effects of climate change hit home. He is right. But equally important at this stage is the practical case. Read more What we’ve learnt so far at COP21 - and what still needs resolving If poor countries are not paid enough in return for accepting a slower rate of growth, they are likely to proceed with the 2,440 coal-fired power stations they have planned, and so forth. That will cripple any climate deal, hastening the disastrous rise in temperatures the planet is heading towards. The Green Climate Fund, in which rich countries aim to place $100bn a year for poorer nations by 2020, must therefore amount to watertight proof of their commitment to this form of reparations. Gambia’s Environment Minister, who represents the least-developed nations, argues that loans cannot count towards that $100bn figure. Indeed, too much of the amount raised so far comes in this form. While Germany, for example, mainly offers grants, France predominantly lends. Britain can be proud of its pledge to give £3720m, the second-highest sum promised so far. More countries should follow such a lead - it is both moral, practical and in the long-term interest of their own citizens.
  13

 13 : COP22_UK374
November 16, 2016 Partners of the Climate Information for Development in Africa initiative (ClimDev-Africa), outlined an ambitious second phase business plan to foster and support climate-sensitive development in Africa. ClimDev-Africa, a joint programme of the African Union Commission (AUC), the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa ( ECA) and the African Development Bank (AfDB) presented components of the new business plan at a side event at the Africa Pavilion at COP 22 . Acting ECA Executive Secretary, Abdalla Hamdok said the Programme had achieved “some spectacular successes” adding that ““£6 despite the achievements of phase 1, there is an urgent need for the programme to address the continent”(TM)s changing landscape of climate change, within the overall regional and global development agenda.” ClimDev-Africa Programme was launched in 2011 with the mandate to address the gaps in the observational records of past, current and future climate trends”“gaps which African leaders and development partners recognized as major obstacles to integrating climate change into Africa”(TM)s development policy processes and strategies. Since inception it has brought to bear the collective efforts of the three key African institutions to foster a common and coordinated response to climate change throughout the continent. The programme operates in three main areas: Support for investments in the modernization of Africa”(TM)s climate observation infrastructure and capacities. This component is led by the AfDB through the ClimDev Special Fund (CDSF). In addition, the programme embarks on analysis, packaging and delivery of climate information to relevant policy and decision making forums and processes, led by ECA through the ACPC. Support for the development of appropriate climate response policies at national, regional and global levels is led by the AUC through the Climate Change and Desertification Unit (CCDU). The first phase of the programme”“supported financially by the European Union, the UK Department for International Development
(DFID), Norway, Sweden, the Nordic Development Fund and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)”“comes to an end in 2016. The partners expressed appreciation for the financial support to the programme and invited continued partnership and new alliances for phase two.”As we go into Phase two, which I strongly believe will contribute immensely to ensuring that climate change becomes an integral component of our continent”(TM)s structural transformation and green industrialization agenda. We look forward to your continued support and partnership,” Hamdok said. Rhoda Peace Timusiime, AU Commissioner Commissioner for Rural Economy and Agriculture emphasized the continued need to provide climate information in policy making to improve adaptation and resilience on the continent. Alex Rugamba, AfDB Director for Energy, Environment and Climate Change said the new business plan enables the three partners “to walk on a new path with one vision and sense of strong complementarity.” The side event was a precursor to a formal launch of the programme scheduled for December 15th in Addis Ababa. Distributed by APO on behalf of United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
( UNECA ).
  14

 14 : COP25_UK355
Intero Integrity Services BV, an inspection and industrial services specialist, has acquired The Sniffers NV, a company specialized in emission monitoring and pipeline integrity services to the oil & gas industry. Sniffers offers emission reduction services such as LDAR and tank emission measurements, energy saving projects for flare and steam-losses and underground pipeline integrity services. The transaction enables Intero to strengthen its service offerings and to enter into the Belgian market. Rienk de Vries, Intero’e2€ s CEO said, ’e2€ The acquisition of The Sniffers strengthens our business and is a further step in developing our environmental and sustainability goals and enhancing our presence in global key industry sectors. Their experience and credentials, together with our own, will open new possibilities in providing additional services to our current and new customers.’e2€ Bart Wauterickx, CEO of The Sniffers said, ’e2€ Intero Integrity Services provides The Sniffers with an extensive global network and access to many new customers. Our team is pleased to join strengths with Intero Integrity Services and to continue our journey to growth. Our emission reduction expertise and our pipeline integrity services can now be brought to more customers around the world. The Sniffers will help them realize their environmental and sustainability ambition. Climate change conferences like COP25 and sustainability objectives provide a very positive business outlook for The Sniffers. This acquisition will accelerate our global growth opportunities.’e2€ Deal Type Acquisition
{102524241033103310331033 Sub-Category 100% Acquisition {102524241033103310331033 Deal Status Completed: 2019-12-18 {102524241033103310331033 Deal Participants Target (Company) The Sniffers NV
{102524241033103310331033 Acquirer (Company) A.Hak Industrial Services B.V. {102524241033103310331033 Deal Rationale The transaction enables Intero to strengthen its service offerings and to enter into the Belgian market. % Acquisition 100% {102524241033103310331033
  15

 15 : COP21_UK21
On the third day of the United Nations climate change conference ( COP21 ), dubbed ‘Resilience Day,’ the UN and the Governments of Peru and France have announced major international partnerships that are mobilizing large-scale financing to protect people who are most vulnerable to climate impacts. These initiatives are taking place under the Lima to Paris Action Agenda (LPAA), launched one year ago at the previous climate change conference in Peru, and aims to strength climate action beyond COP21 . “Resilience is really important because the climate is already changing, and we need to be able to not just adapt to the changes but actually develop in a way that takes into account that in the future, climate will still change,” Janos Pasztor, the UN Assistant Secretary-General on Climate Change, told the UN News Service in an interview at the conference site in Paris.
“Even if we stop all the emissions today, there are already enough greenhouse gases in the atmosphere that the climate will continue to change,” he continued. “So we need to adjust our development process, adjust our economic approach [. . . ] and be more resilient to future changes that will happen.” Bold announcements were made at COP21 today, which was dedicated to building more resilient societies and economies. According to the UN, extreme climate already impacts hundreds of millions of people every year, undermining or destroying their livelihoods, their homes and their environment. The Rockefeller Foundation estimates that over the last 30 years, one dollar out of every three spent on development has been lost as a result of such recurring crises, a total loss of $ 3.8 trillion dollars worldwide. In contrast, resilient societies and economies suffer less and recover more quickly from such natural disasters. “Resilience-it is very important when we talk about climate change and its consequences,” Manuel Pulgar-Vidal, Peru’s Minister of the Environment, told the UN News Service. “When we talk about resilience, we are talking about how can we resist [. . . ] and avoid negative consequences to our human population,” he explained.
“To the wildlife, to the habitat, to the ecosystems, to the water, to the ocean-that is why we have the ‘Resilience Day.’ If climate change is going to bring us natural disasters, we should have the objective of resilience as a way to face those kinds of consequences.” Meanwhile, the UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR) today launched a new ‘Climate Risk Early Warning System,’ (CREWS), while the governments of Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands agreed to give more than $ 80 million dollars to equip up to 80 countries with better systems to support countries most vulnerable to climate disasters. The plan was first proposed in March by France’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Laurent Fabius at the Third UN World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction in Sendai, Japan. “Climate related disasters cause human losses and dramatic economic losses each year,” said France’s Secretary of State for Development Annick Girardin. “We will first help the most exposed countries among [Least Developed Countries] and Small Island States which will be most at risk as the frequency and severity of such hazards are expected to increase in this part of the world,” she added. News from COP21 also included the announcement from a broad coalition of nations, river basin organizations, business and civil society of the creation of the international Paris Pact on Water and Climate Change Adaptation to make water systems - considered the very foundation of sustainable human development-more resilient to climate impacts. Almost 290 water basin organizations are reportedly engaged under this new Pact. They say without improved water resources management, the progress towards poverty reduction targets, the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and sustainable development in all its economic, social and environmental dimensions, will be jeopardized. According to a press release issued by the main actors of the LPAA, many other initiatives launched on
‘Resilience Day’ covered the “full spread of peoples’ needs” as they face increasing climate impacts.” (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  16

 16 : COP26_UK313
World leaders are gathering in Glasgow today for a summit at the start of theC2crunch UN COP26 climate conference. Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who will welcome leaders to Glasgow for the Cop26 talks, will tell them that humanity has E2long since run down the clock on climate changeE2 and must act now to tackle the crisis. Who is in Glasgow for COP26 today? Around 120 heads of state and government are set to attend the world leadersE2 summit at the start of the Cop26 talks, where countries are under pressure to increase action in the next decade to tackle dangerous warming. The Prince of Wales, who is addressing leaders at an opening ceremony for the talks alongside Mr Johnson, is expected to stress the urgency of action E2 calling for the world to be on a E2war-like footingE2. What is happening at COP26 today? According to the official COP26 schedule, the following is planned for today: Opening Ceremony “World Leaders are invited to an Opening Ceremony, hosted by the UK Prime Minister, to welcome them to the World Leaders Summit of COP26 .”The ceremony features creative and cultural moments. It will be a significant, symbolic and impactful moment, putting climate action on the global stage.” C2 Today leaders from around the world are gathering in Glasgow for # COP26 They will come together to make clear their commitment to tackle climate change and signal ambition for the summit. Learn more #TogetherForOurPlanet E2 COP26 (@ COP26 ) November 1, 2021 C2 National Statements “This is an opportunity for leaders to set out the ambitious actions that they are taking domestically and internationally, and to send a clear message to ministers, negotiators and observers to work together in Glasgow to accelerate urgent action this decade.” Leaders’ Event “The next decade is critical to increase ambition to keep 1.5C2C in reach and adapt to the impact of climate change. Across mitigation, adaptation and finance, COP26 must be a turning point. Global leaders will come together to show that ambition and discuss what must be done to deliver on the goals of the Paris Agreement.”The leaders will hear the latest scientific reporting and examine the state of progress, hearing success stories, but also what is at stake for countries across the world if we do not take action, together, now.” Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  17

 17 : COP24_UK265
The collected speeches of 16-year-old Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, who began the worldwide school strike for the environment in 2018, will be released as a book next month. Penguin, which is also HYPERLINK rushing out a handbook from Extinction Rebellion , will publish No One Is Too Small to Make a Difference, a selection of 11 of Thunberg’s key speeches, all written by her. It will be published on 6 June as a £32.99 paperback. The first speech in the book was given three weeks after Thunberg’s first climate strike in August 2018, the most recent in the UK parliament last month. “My name is HYPERLINK Greta Thunberg . I am 16 years old. I come from Sweden. And I speak on behalf of future generations,” the teenage Nobel peace prize nominee ~ HYPERLINK told MPs . “We children are not sacrificing our education and our childhood for you to tell us what you consider is politically possible in the society that you have created . . . We children are doing this to wake the adults up. We children are doing this for you to put your differences aside and start acting as you would in a crisis. We children are doing this because we want our hopes and dreams back.” The book takes its title from a speech Thunberg made at the COP24 UN climate talks. Penguin described her as “the voice of a generation facing the full force of climate catastrophe . . . quiet, angry and unafraid, speaking truth to power.” And after winning it at a publisher auction, Penguin will also release Scenes from the Heart later this year, a family memoir written jointly by her mother, the opera singer Malena Ernman, her sister Beate Ernman, her father Svante Thunberg and Greta herself. All of the family’s earnings from both books will be donated to charity. “It will be the story of the family and how they have been able to support Greta,” said commissioning editor Chloe Currens. Greta Thunberg was diagnosed with Asperger’s and selective mutism “a few years ago and rather than railing against that and trying to make her
‘normal’, they chose to support her when she said she wanted to do something about climate change.” Currens said that Thunberg had “already galvanised millions of children and adults around the world, and she’s only just getting started”. “She calls for change at the highest level - and because her message is so urgent, and so essential, we are working to make it available to as many readers as we can, as quickly as we possibly can. This little book will document an extraordinary, unprecedented moment in our history, and invite you to join in the fight for climate justice: to wake up, spread the word, and make a difference,” said the editor. There will be no foreword to the speeches. “We want to facilitate her voice, not interfere as publishers,” said Currens. “She is an incredibly clear-eyed child, speaking to adults . . . This is an invitation to get up and join in. There is hope in these pages, not just doom and gloom.” When asked about the environmental sustainability of producing a printed book, Penguin said that it was committed to printing all of its books on “FSC certified paper, one of the greenest possible options” by 2020, and that the book would be printed in the UK. “There is of course more we need to do help combat the climate crisis, and we are committed to supporting Greta Thunberg’s efforts to spread this message far and wide,” it said.
  18

 18 : COP22_UK18
The meeting will gather representatives from Ministries of environment, agriculture and water, the Green Climate
Fund (GCF) and Global Environment Facility (GEF) national focal points as well as FAO senior staffs ROME, Italy – High ranking officials from the Maghreb region are convening in Rabat for a three days’ workshop, jointly
organized by the Government of Morocco, Union of Maghreb Countries (UMA), with the support of the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO). This first of a series of FAO sponsored sub regional dialogues on Agriculture related Intended National Determined Contributions (INDC‘s) and Climate Finance will discuss the priorities of the UMA countries in sustainable agriculture development and climate change, the potential of climate finance in helping countries deliver on their pledges and the collaboration with FAO. The meeting will gather representatives from Ministries of environment, agriculture and water, the Green Climate Fund (GCF) and Global Environment Facility (GEF) national focal points as well as FAO senior staffs. The participants will also exchange on the agriculture related regional and global initiatives brought to the COP22 , including Africa Adaptation Initiative and Water Scarcity Initiative. “Agriculture will be greatly affected by climate change but sustainable agriculture development can also be part of the solutions to Climate Change said the FAO Assistant Director-General and Regional Representative for the Near East and North Africa, Abdessalam Ould Ahmed M. S”This high level workshop offers the opportunity for an in-depth discussion of the ways and means to implement the country pledges as they relate to agriculture and to explore possible collaboration with FAO in their implementation and the role of climate finance” , he added. Most countries in the Near East and North Africa region have included Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries at the heart of their Intended Nationally Determined Contribution. Distributed by APO on behalf of Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  19

 19 : COP21_UK157
PARIS - Westinghouse Electric Company welcomes the outcome of the COP21 climate negotiations as a step in the right direction toward a low-carbon future. President and Chief Executive Officer Danny Roderick stated, ‘The road from Paris to a low-carbon, climate-friendly future is long. The clock is ticking. We need to start work now to implement the global climate deal. Everyone has finally recognized that all low-carbon technologies are needed. Governments must continue the momentum and create stable and supportive national and regional regulatory systems for them. We need to get this right with clear, consistent and workable rules.’ Westinghouse, the global nuclear technology leader, has been at the forefront of the nuclear industry’s drive to raise awareness about the contribution of low-carbon nuclear energy to the health of our planet. The Paris agreement signals a broader understanding of the fact that a combination of wind, solar, hydro and nuclear is needed. This change in approach will be helpful in creating a better environment for investment, according to Roderick, ‘The message from COP21 is clear: it’s time to redirect investment and financing from carbon-intensive fossil fuels to building a new generation of nuclear power plants for security of future energy supply.’ ‘We cannot risk creating a situation in which we want clean, reliable and affordable electricity, but are not able to provide it because we failed to plan, invest and build when we could. New energy infrastructure that will last for 50 years or more cannot be built overnight. We need careful, long-term planning of investments and construction,’ he added. Westinghouse Electric Company, a group company of Toshiba Corporation (TKY:6502), is the world’s pioneering nuclear energy company and is a leading supplier of nuclear plant products and technologies to utilities throughout the world. Westinghouse supplied the world’s first commercial pressurized water reactor in 1957 in Shipping port, Pa., U.S. Today, Westinghouse technology is the basis for approximately one-half of the world’s operating nuclear plants, including more than 50 percent of those in Europe. Media Contact: Tel: +1 412-374-6379 [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to HYPERLINK mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  20

 20 : COP23_UK7
November 8, 2017 United Nation’s (UN) annual climate conference (COP) started in Bonn, Germany on Monday. The conference will be attended by more than 20,000 delegates. Fortum participates both in the conference and Sustainable Innovation Forum 2017 - the largest side event organised by Climate Action and UN Environment. Kari Kankaanp’e4’e4, Fortum’s Senior Manager, Climate Affairs, will be joining the delegation of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) during the second week of the COP23 . “Fortum is strongly committed to climate change mitigation and actions towards a cleaner world. As a leading clean-energy company we want to be involved in COP where policy makers, regulators, commerce and industry and civil society meet. We see the conference as an excellent opportunity to take part in the discussion on global climate and energy policy,” says Kari Kankaanp’e4’e4. Fortum one of the main partners of the Sustainable Innovation Forum 2017 Sustainable Innovation Forum (SIF) will take place in Bonn on 13 - 14 November. SIF is the largest business-focused side event during COP23 and is expected to gather together over 600 participants. Pekka Lundmark, Fortum’s President and CEO, will be joining the opening panel of the Forum on Accelerating the Energy Transition on 13 November, together with representatives of Siemens, Orsted and ministers from Norway and Scotland. In addition, Fortum has an exhibition stand in SIF showcasing the clean energy solutions, presenting Fortum’s climate and energy policy messages and offering an opportunity to network with the experts. “The recent reports on climate change by the scientific community are alarming and show the urgency of measures needed to combat climate change. We need to speed up the transition to a low-carbon electricity system, to improve the resource efficiency and to promote the circular economy. The three most important challenges for all energy producers at the moment are decarbonisation, security of supply and affordability,” says Pekka Lundmark. Read more: Follow discussions in Twitter: # COP23 and #SIF17 The COP is the supreme decision-making body of the Climate Convention. All states that are parties to the Convention are represented at the COP. In addition to governments, a large number of businesses, NGOs, cities and other stakeholders participate in the conference. COP23 is focusing on the development of the implementation rules of the Paris Agreement signed in 2015.
  21

 21 : COP26_UK246
Working with the Scottish Communities Climate Action Network (SCCAN), the Climate Reflections Exhibition and Witness Report Series will launch on Friday, November 5 and open on Saturday and Sunday, November 6 and 7. The exhibition brings together the voices of Indigenous people fighting for their way of life from communities in the global south who are already on the frontlines of climate change, and those in Scotland who are beginning to explore what this crisis will mean for our world. The exhibition is joined by British Geological Survey hydrologist and artist, Nicole Manley, who presents her film and photography evidence of flooding and ground water impact in Scotland and the Philippines (pictured). COP26 . “We are also grateful to National Mining Museum Scotland for giving these community voices a space during such a high profile event for climate action that is COP26 Glasgow. The Climate Reflection and Witness Report will be open to the public, free of charge, on November 6 and 7. On the final day of COP26 , November 12, the museum will host its Changing Perspectives conference.
  22

 22 : COP22_UK140
In the run up to the Climate Finance Day in Casablanca, and COP22 in Marrakesh, Cr’e9dit Agricole has decided to stop financing new coal-fired power plants or extensions. This means that no more new financing will be provided other than commitments already made. This measure attests Cr’e9dit Agricole’s renewed commitment to supporting major changes in society in which its clients are involved in terms of combating climate disruption and transition to new energy sources. It has extended the commitments made in May 2015 and then in September 2015, ahead of COP21, to no longer finance coal mines or operators specialising in this area worldwide, or new coal-fired power plants in high income countries. The Group’s policies concerning its commitments in sensitive sectors in terms of the environment and climate change will continue to be adapted in order to best respond to major issues of concern to all, along with its clients. This announcement is in addition to the commitments made by Cr’e9dit Agricole CIB, the Group’s corporate and investment banking arm, announced at the time of COP21, to structure EUR60bn of new climate finance between now and the end of 2018. Between 1st January and 30th September, 2016, EUR22.5bn of this target was achieved. This article is supplied by Only Strategic Financial Newslink ( HYPERLINK www.onlystrategic.com
  23

 23 : COP25_UK155
GEOFFREY COX could be offered the chance to run a major review into judicial activism as a sop for being sacked in Boris Johnson’s first reshuffle since his election landslide this week. The Attorney General is being tipped for a move out of government after sources briefed that he was “not a team player”. However, Tory sources say that to sugar the pill he could be asked to run a new Constitution, Democracy and Rights Commission, which will consider whether to rein in the scope of judicial review challenges in courts. The Tory party’s manifesto commits the Government to setting up the commission before December. One senior Tory source said the job had been “pretty much designed for him”. Lucy Frazer is being lined up to replace Mr Cox, although one minister told The Sunday Telegraph: “Geoffrey doesn’t want to go yet, he certainly wants to stay as Attorney General through the [Brexit] negotiations.” Mr Johnson is understood to have set up a large white board on which he is moving around names and faces of his Cabinet. One Cabinet minister said the Prime Minister was keeping his plans very private, adding:
“The one thing none of us know is what is in Boris’s mind.” Westminster has been awash with rumours all week, with some claiming that the positions of Dominic Raab, the Foreign Secretary, and Sajid Javid, the Chancellor, were under threat. Other moves being considered include Cabinet Office minister Oliver Dowden to the culture department, and Mark Spencer to replace Theresa Villiers in the environment, food and rural affairs department. Michael Gove, the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, is tipped to be given a wider role running the Brexit talks at a beefed-up Cabinet Office. The Prime Minister is also being urged to make the role of the Northern Powerhouse minister - occupied by Jake Berry - a full-time Cabinet position to be a “northern enforcer across the whole of Government”. Lord Goldsmith of Richmond Park is widely tipped to be given the role of chairing the COP26 United Nations Climate Change conference in November. The jobs of Ben Wallace, the Defence Secretary, and Andrea Leadsom, the Business Secretary, are under threat.
  24

 24 : COP26_UK112
January 15, 2022 Following an open and constructive exchange of views on climate change issues, priorities, and areas for collaboration, in the follow-up to COP26 and in preparation for COP27, COP26 President Alok Sharma and COP27 President Designate Sameh Shoukry released the following statement: As the current and incoming UNFCCC COP Presidencies, we affirm our joint commitment to accelerating the fight against climate change during this critical decade. In this context, we agreed that the United Kingdom and Egypt would strengthen bilateral cooperation to fight climate change and to maintain and build on the current momentum for global climate action. We will work together in 2022 and beyond to drive ambitious implementation of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Paris Agreement, and to deliver on the outcomes of the Glasgow Climate Pact to keep 1.5 degrees in reach and support developing countries in adapting to the impacts of climate change. The UK will give its full support to Egypt in delivering ambitious outcomes at COP27, including ensuring that it delivers for those most vulnerable to climate change. We emphasize the urgency of action required to address the gaps in ambition across mitigation, adaptation, loss and damage, and finance, and the importance of responding to the best available science in this respect. We recognize that significant progress was made at COP26 , but there is much more to be done - particularly to implement commitments made. We aim to pursue a lasting legacy that ensures the UNFCCC process continues to drive ambitious action to address climate change and its impacts. Through our partnership, we will drive and support key processes, activities, and initiatives to increase ambition and implementation to achieve the goals of the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement. We will work together to encourage all Parties to meet their commitments across mitigation, adaptation, loss and damage and finance; requesting that by the end of 2022 parties revisit and strengthen their 2030 emissions target to align with Paris temperature goals, including enhancing NDCs long term strategies and stepping up ambition therein, ensuring accelerated delivery of the $ 100bn and to make progress towards doubling of adaptation finance on 2019 levels, as envisaged in the Glasgow Climate Pact. We also recognize the importance of our own domestic climate action, to demonstrate leadership globally. We further recognize the opportunity our partnership offers to enhance our shared prosperity through green trade and investment opportunities. To achieve our aims, we will share experience and expertise and work closely with key partners, including the UNFCCC Secretariat and the Chairs of the Subsidiary Bodies. We will pursue inclusive leadership and engagement that leaves no issue and no one behind, and enables the voices of all Parties, civil society, and vulnerable groups, including youth and indigenous peoples, to be heard. To this end, we agree to continue close consultations in the months ahead, both on the ministerial and technical levels. Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  25

 25 : COP21_UK241
Kingfisher plc – Last week at COP 21 in Paris, governments of the world united in action on climate change by adopting the Paris Agreement, the first universal, legally binding climate deal. This agreement will spur a transformation of global growth and development and open the door to a low-carbon, stable, sustainable future. Today, major cities, regions, companies and investors from around the globe representing 150 million people and US$ 11 trillion promised to quickly and effectively help implement the Paris Agreement and accelerate the transformative changes needed to meet the climate change challenge. L’Appel de Paris, or the Paris Pledge for Action, is a call to action in support of the Paris Agreement which brings together a multitude of voices on an unprecedented scale within a single, collective statement: “We welcome the adoption of a new, universal climate agreement at COP 21 in Paris, which is a critical step on the path to solving climate change. We pledge our support to ensuring that the level of ambition set by the agreement is met or exceeded.” This landmark pledge is a clear signal that the message sent by the negotiations has been received loud and clear and that cities, regions, business, investors and other non-state actors are now ready and willing to stand shoulder to shoulder, alongside governments, to implement the terms of the agreement. This is our best opportunity to limit global temperature rise to less than 2 degrees Celsius and raise ambition even before the agreement takes effect in 2020. L’Appel de Paris has already been signed over 400 businesses, including Kingfisher plc, 120 investors, 150 cities and regions representing 150 million people and US$ 11 trillion. L’Appel de Paris (Paris Pledge for Action) brings together hundreds of non-state actors from across the globe in support of Paris Agreement on climate change. The Paris Pledge for Action is an initiative of the COP21 French Presidency managed by the University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  26

 26 : COP26_UK45
None of the pledges on climate action made at HYPERLINK Cop26 will matter unless countries deliver on them, HYPERLINK Alok Sharma has warned. Speaking at a HYPERLINK Chatham House event in London on Monday, the Cop26 President said countries had come together, despite an otherwise fractured world, at UN climate talks in HYPERLINK Glasgow last year to secure agreement on raising their climate ambition and phasing down coal. But Mr Sharma, who continues in his role as president until he hands over to Egypt for the Cop27 talks in November this year, acknowledged that the Glasgow summit’s success was “fragile”. He said he was focused on pushing for delivery on raising efforts to cut emissions, helping countries adapt to climate extremes, delivering on finance for poorer nations and pushing for further action in sectors such as coal. Through the Glasgow Climate Pact signed in November, 197 countries agreed to strengthen their emissions-cutting targets for 2030 by the end of next year in an attempt to limit global warming climbing above 1.5C. Mr Sharma told the Chatham House audience that “collective self-interest” had driven agreement, with leaders recognising that the science of climate change was clear, that inaction or delayed action would create immense risks and costs and there was an economic dividend to tackling the crisis. There is no doubt that the commitments we secured at Cop26 were historic Alok Sharma, Cop26 “Net zero is one of the clearest economic trends there has ever been,” he said, adding that “clean is competitive” and the global race to supply technologies and solutions for the net zero world was on. “The train is pulling out of the station and countries and companies that want to remain competitive need to leap on now,” he urged. He said the HYPERLINK G20 group of leading nations, which are responsible for 80% of global emissions, were his personal priority as part of efforts to urge all countries to revisit and strengthen their plans to cut emissions by 2030. And he said: “There is no doubt that the commitments we secured at Cop26 were historic.”Yet at the moment they are just words on a page. “We will have fractured the trust built between nations.”And 1.5C will slip from our grasp. “So my absolute focus for the UK Presidency year is delivery.” In a question and answer session after his speech, Mr Sharma disagreed with suggestions the talks in Glasgow had been a failure, pointing to how almost 200 countries had agreed to the pact despite conflicts around the world. He said the conference had succeeded on delivering in areas that many people had not thought could be achieved, including getting all countries to agree to come back by the end of 2022 with enhanced emissions cuts. But he said: “None of that will matter unless these commitments are turned into action. In reference to comments he made in the aftermath of the talks that 1.5C was alive, but its pulse was weak, he added:”It was a fragile win. “That heartbeat of 1.5C will only be strengthened if people continue, if countries continue to deliver.” Read More HYPERLINK Cop26 news live: 1bn ‘face dangerous heat if warming hits 2C’ HYPERLINK Everything to look out for in week two at HYPERLINK Cop26 HYPERLINK Fossil fuel lobbyists outnumber any country delegation at HYPERLINK Cop26 HYPERLINK Cop26 President Alok Sharma to urge countries to act on Glasgow agreement HYPERLINK Vigil for girl who died from chronic asthma brought on by London’s polluted air HYPERLINK Government ‘must be open with public’ about net zero strategy Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  27

 27 : COP24_UK219
The funny thing is, IT - you know, IT - is not even the biggest story. Nor are the riots in France by the Gilets Jaunes. That title goes to Sir David Attenborough. Fear not, he’e2(EURO)(TM)s not just backed the Mussolini for Uxbridge and South Ruislip, Boris Johnson. As I say, that’e2(EURO)(TM)s not really the big story. Instead, the real tale is about climate and our survival. For many years, people in the green movement urged him to speak about the scientific fact of climate change in more newsworthy terms. He resisted on the grounds people had heard enough of disaster, and it had become a turn-off. This is something the green movement knew itself - the 1980s blitz of apocalyptic headlines around the newly discovered hole in the ozone layer had bumped up eco issues on the political agenda, but has also made people doubt it was quite that bad. Being told the end of the world is nigh is both very alarming and a bit dull without calamity to prove the point. By the 1990s, the green movement was trying to move away from ’e2(EURO)oeWe are all doomed’e2(EURO) to more-manageable ideas such as recycling. The drama of Greenpeace driving speedboats at whaling ships or oil platforms had worn off - though quite why the greens were to blame for the tropes of 24-hour news media was not entirely clear. Eco activists knew they had to play the media, but struggled with the fact that all their policies, and many of the threatened outcomes, were of an astonishing scale. They had to take huge stories and make them look small. Attenborough, a thoroughly neutral figure, which makes him the best politician for the early 21st Century, had resisted tales of eco disaster. Instead of shouting gloom through the screen, he showed us the world in a detail we’e2(EURO)(TM)d never seen. His documentary truth was greater than any sermon - he cut through prejudice about eco issues by showing life as it was. This year was the year he changed, and the debate changed because of it. The nice man who whispers about animals is the one now telling us we face catastrophe. We are the livestock in the background. ’e2(EURO)oeRight now we are facing a man-made disaster of global scale, our greatest threat in thousands of years - climate change,’e2(EURO) Sir David told a conference in Katowice, Poland. ’e2(EURO)oeIf we don’e2(EURO)(TM)t take action, the collapse of our civilisations and the extinction of much of the natural world is on the horizon. The human brain appears programmed to deny endings. We know we are going to die, for example, but that diagnosis always surprises. We imagine pain happens to others, and death isn’e2(EURO)(TM)t for us. So with the planet, nobody thinks it’e2(EURO)(TM)s going to happen to their Earth. Attenborough is trying to tell us that, like cancer, like heart disease, like the inevitable business of death, just because climate change is not catastrophic yet, it will happen. Not the end of the world - but the end of the human world. The planet will spin, nature will continue. It’e2(EURO)(TM)s only our version that will no longer exist. Our star, among a billion others, will still be in the universe, but we may not. COP24 ). ’e2(EURO)oeThe world’e2(EURO)(TM)s people have spoken. Time is running out. They want you, the decision-makers, to act now. Leaders of the world, you must lead. ’e2(EURO)oeThe continuation of civilisations and the natural world upon which we depend is in your hands,’e2(EURO) he implored. COP24 effectively ends today, the delegates gone and the declarations signed. The World Bank has doubled its budget for climate projects to $200 billion, the German Government are to spend more on green matters, and success stories about nations cutting CO2 emissions have been shared. However, the most authoritative report on the world’e2(EURO)(TM)s climate was not adopted. The United States, Russia, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia objected to the IPCC report, which says the world has missed the target of 1.5’c2’b0C warming and is now heading for 3’c2’b0C above the average for the past few millennia. The political rejection was odd, given the report had been commissioned by COP21 in 2015. The study concludes ’e2(EURO)oerapid, far-reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society’e2(EURO) are needed if we are to avert disaster. Political populism feeds off resistance to
’e2(EURO)oerapid’e2(EURO) change. Notoriously, Donald Trump pulled the USA out of the Paris Agreement of 2015, and has since mocked other nations for playing the green game. He advocates coal-powered energy production and industry, knowing this to be a major source of CO2. Those Paris riots are driven by people angry at increased fuel prices - which France has had to delay. And quite what Brexit does for the most important issue of the age is not clear. Thank Earth for Sir David, and reject populism.
  28

 28 : COP23_UK58
ENVIRONMENT campaigner Ewan Jones of Bruton has continued a journey he began in 2015, pedalling on from Paris to the United Nations COP23 climate change conference in Bonn, Germany. In November 2015, Ewan cycled from Plymouth to the previous Paris COP21 conference - delivering reports on more than 3,000 tonnes of carbon saved by the people of Cornwall - via Climate Vision’s ten Carbon Logic Footsteps pledges. This year, Ewan was one of three cyclists to pick up the pedals from Paris, and continue “On2Bonn”. Ewan said: “The COP21 Paris Agreement was rightly hailed as one of the world’s greatest diplomatic successes - as all 196 nations united in committing to limit global tempererature rise to a maximum 1.5C to 2C above pre-industrial levels.”However, the hard work started after Paris. The COP23 Bonn conference is an important step along the road of the world working out, together, ‘how’ we can meet this ambitious target.” Arriving in Bonn after pedalling 600 kilometres across northern France and Belgium’s hilly Ardennes region, Ewan and his two companions united with 2,500 German cyclists to ride into the city, and then joined more than 30,000 people marching to end coal mining in Germany - the biggest climate demonstration the country has ever seen. Ewan said: “We have met cycling teams from countries across Europe, all converging on Bonn by the power in their legs. Three hundred cycled together from Belgium; we met a couple of Frenchmen who had crossed the Alps on a yellow tandem, and there are even two young New Zealanders who have cycled 10,000 kilometres to get here.” Of the upcoming COP23 negotiations in Bonn, he said:
“The two years since Paris have seen political turmoil in Both Britain and America, but those converging on Bonn are demonstrating their commitment to deliver the Paris Agreement regardless of the absence of national leadership.”A total of 383 US Climate Mayors, representing 68 million Americans, have committed to working together to strengthen local efforts for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, regardless of the presence of Donald Trump in the White House. “The EU Committee of the Regions is bringing proposals for Regionally and Locally Determined Contributions that will count towards national carbon reduction plans, meaning the South West of England can deliver our share of the Paris Agreement regardless of Brexit paralysis in Westminster.” COP23 “I love the generosity of Bonn’s vision in hosting COP23 on behalf of Fiji, the first small island developing state to hold the Presidency of a UN climate conference, and hope that our small island state can rediscover broader horizons soon.”
  29

 29 : COP21_UK344
Click here for full-size image epa05048387 Iranian Vice-President Masoumeh Ebtekar (R) is welcomed by French President Francois Hollande (L) upon her arrival for the opening of the UN conference on climate change COP21 , at Le Bourget, outside Paris, 30 November 2015. The 21st Conference of the Parties ( COP21 ) is held in Paris from 30 November to 11 December aimed at reaching an international agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions and curtail climate change. EPA/LOIC VENANCE / POOL MAXPPP OUT IMAGE ID: EPALIVE926312 HYPERLINK Subject to copyright. Click here for information regarding redistribution of this image.
  30

 30 : COP21_UK284
Text of report by PSCU entitled “President Uhuru urges Commonwealth countries to fight terrorism as a family” published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website on 30 November President Uhuru Kenyatta has called for unified efforts in the fight against radicalisation, violent extremism and terrorism. President Kenyatta said Commonwealth countries can collaborate as a family at national, regional and international levels in implementing strategies to counter the threats posed by international crimes. The president spoke at the close of the three-day 25th Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) in Valletta, Malta. “Young people comprise 60 per cent of the commonwealth population and play a significant role in building stable, secure and prosperous societies. Let us promote youth participation in national building and peace building,” the president said. Other leaders who spoke during the occasion were President John Mahama of Ghana, Prime Minister of Barbados Freundel Stuart, host Prime Minister Joseph Muscat, President of Nauru Baron Divavesi Waqa and outgoing Commonwealth Secretary-General Kamalesh Sharma. Uhuru affirmed Kenya’s commitment to continued engagement with other countries on the best practices to tackle emerging trends of terrorism. “It is only through cooperation and unity of purpose that a future in which people of all faiths and cultures live peacefully together with the rights of individuals and minorities protected can be built,” he added. The president also impressed on the Commonwealth countries to approach as a team the upcoming UN talks on tackling global warming and curbing emissions to be held in Paris, France. Meanwhile the president arrived in Paris, France, on Sunday to attend the 2015 Climate Change Summit, better known by its acronym COP 21 . The twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties ( COP21 ) and the eleventh session of the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP11) will take place as from tomorrow to 11 December 2015. The Paris summit represents a historic opportunity to put the world on course to meet the climate change challenge. COP21 seeks to deliver a clear pathway with short and long-term milestones, and a system to help world go. President Kenyatta will be among some 140 world leaders including US President Barack Obama, China’s Xi Jinping, India’s Narendra Modi and Russia’s Vladimir Putin attending the summit widely expected to reach the first truly global deal to cut greenhouse gases. Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 30 Nov 15
  31

 31 : COP23_UK99
Jean-Philippe Desmartin, Head of Responsible Investment at Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management, on what to expect from Emmanuel Macron at this week’s climate change summit in Paris The COP23 ~ At the COP23 Will € Old Europe€ succeed in assuming co-leadership with China? Emmanuel Macron has already called for Donald Trump’s decision to cease IPCC funding to be symbolically compensated. For the moment, the current political standstill in Germany precludes any pro-active stance from Berlin and thus from Europe. ~ In the meantime, one of the tough questions that participants at the December 12 summit will have to grapple with is how to raise the 100bn a year that developed countries promised back in 2015 to pay to the least developed countries from 2020 to help them fund energy transition. The US was at the time supposed to be one of the biggest contributors. How will this shortfall be met, at least until the end of Donald Trump’s term of office? The immediate focus will be on reassuring beneficiary countries as they are expecting a sustainable solution to be found. ~ At the same time, the French President could, in a gesture to business interests, put the question of a carbon price floor back on the agenda. A number of countries, investors and economists are in favour of a carbon price signal at EUR30 or USD30 at least.~ ~ Looking beyond government action, he will probably encourage all stakeholders to acknowledge their responsibilities. Quite a few US states, cities and companies have already said they are willing to continue the fight against global warming even if the White House has backed out. Emmanuel Macron is also expected to encourage investors, most of whom are already fully aware of climate issues, to go further.~Also, NGOs will be doing their job if they continue to apply pressure so that things really do change from 2020 onwards. offFlag:~
  32

 32 : COP22_UK38
An historic first for the Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Agreement on Climate Change (COP), a Water Action Day was the highlight of the third day of COP22 in Marrakech, with November 9, 2016 dedicated to water. Several events were held throughout this Water Action Day, including a high level panel organized by the host country of this global summit on climate change in the United Nations blue zone. The African Development Bank (AfDB) was represented by its Director for Water Supply and Sanitation, Mohamed El Azizi in the discussions panel. The Moroccan Junior Minister for Water, Charafat Afilal; Water Ministers Barmou Salifou, Niouga Ambroise Ouedraogo and Sidick Abdelkerim Haggar from Niger, Burkina Faso and Chad, respectively, as well as the Director of the Moroccan Office of Electricity and Potable Water (ONEE), Ali Fassi El Fihri, took part in this roundtable’s lively discussions. Water mentioned in 85% of INDCs Water is at the heart of many challenges posed by climate change, and calls for as many solutions. Even a slight increase in the earth’s temperature will have serious consequences: climate variability is increasing and its impacts are more numerous, more serious and longer lasting, particularly extreme climate events (floods and droughts, for example). Such phenomena lead to increased water pollution, higher incidence of malnutrition, more migration and more significant losses, particularly in infrastructure and agricultural production. More than 85% of Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs) presented by countries participating in the Paris Agreement cite water as a key adaptation issue, the UNFCCC noted during COP22 . During their presentations, the panellists addressed the entire range of issues and challenges related to water that affect African countries: access to potable water and sanitation services, irrigation, agriculture and food security, health issues, lack of water infrastructure, as well as medium and long term perspectives on climate change. ‘Water insecurity leads to heightened conflicts, tension among populations, and causes migrations that threaten global stability,’ stated Minister Charafat Afilal. ‘Africa is the continent that is most vulnerable to climate change,’ said Mohamed El Azizi, Director of the AfDB’s Water Supply and Sanitation Department. He added, ‘It’s about providing justice, in the context of climate financing, to this continent, which has suffered the consequences of climate change without having been responsible for it. African countries are concerned with the complex and difficult access to climate financing, particularly for fragile countries.’ Large water adaptation projects financed by AfDB in Morocco The Bank has financed large projects for climate change adaptation in Morocco. Among these are the water transfer project between the Rabat and Casablanca watersheds that impacts the daily lives of 5 million people, the Marrakech region water supply project, benefitting 2 million people, and the Tetouan region potable water supply security project via the transfer of water from the Tangier Med port facilities to the Moulay El Hassan Bel Mehdi dam. ‘I would like to congratulate the Bank for its ability to react, responding quickly to our financing needs for this project,’ stated ONEE Director Ali Fassi Fihri. ‘[It] has ensured service continuity for potable water in the area, because without supplementary service prior to the end of 2016, the entire Tetouan area would be confronted with a catastrophic water shortage.’ On the Water Action Day, Morocco used the opportunity to officially launch a new initiative, ‘Water for Africa’. This initiative began prior to COP22 , in July 2016 in Rabat, during the International Conference on Water and Climate, organized by the country in partnership with the World Water Council. The goal is to mobilise the international community to develop an emergency action plan on water to confront climate change in Africa and thereby mobilise the necessary financial resources. The Blue Book on Water and Climate was also released today, the result of reports and recommendations formulated during the conference held in Rabat last July. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  33

 33 : COP26_UK306
A FORMER South Bromsgrove High School student who carries out crucial experiments on trees to help in the fight against climate change has shared her vital work at COP26 . The 28-year-old spends up to 14 hours day among the treetops at a unique giant outdoor forest-scale experiment in Staffordshire, where she measures the leaf responses to changes in the environmental conditions such as light, temperature and humidity. Her work is part of a Free Air Carbon Enrichment Experiment, where scientists expose a mature oak forest to CO2 levels expected in 2050. The data collected by Anna is crucial to help scientists understand how much carbon trees and forests can store in future predicted climate scenarios. Anna won a competition to showcase her work at the COP26 in Glasgow, which she described as an E2incredible experienceE2. As well as teaming up with an artist and filmmaker to produce an art and science exhibition, Anna also got the chance to present her work as part of the UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) exhibit. Now back from Glasgow, Anna said: E2As a scientist we spend days, weeks and years locked away experimenting and researching which can be quite isolating. So to be able to share our findings and work together on the next generation of science is really important. E2Ultimately the work of scientists is to collect the data and inform people of results, this then feeds into government decisions and policy-making at those much higher levels. “I am hoping that COP26 will provide the momentum needed to create change for both now and our future. We need to work together at the global scale for decarbonisation to finally begin and I think COP26 will both enable and encourage this.E2 Classification Language: ~ENGLISH
  34

 34 : COP23_UK211
Representing Alstom and the Hydrogen Council, Henri Poupart-Lafarge has appeared as part of a panel at One Planet Summit, an event co-organised by the French Presidency, the United Nations and the World Bank.
Mr. Poupart-Lafarge was there as CEO of a world-leading mobility company and on behalf of the Hydrogen Council following its meeting at COP 23 in November. Other panel members included Isabella Lovin, Swedish Minister for International Development Cooperation and Climate and Deputy PM, Laurence Tubiana, CEO of the European Climate Foundation, and Monica Araya, Founder and Executive Director of Nivela, Costa Rica. Sustainable transportation is at the centre of any discussion about limiting global emissions. At today’s Summit,
Mr. Poupart-Lafarge explained the Hydrogen Council’s aim of ensuring that all hydrogen used in transportation be completely decarbonised by 2030. ‘We need partnerships, to be all around the table establishing the right technical, financial and legislative environment to allow this decarbonised hydrogen to emerge. As part of a broader energy policy, we know that hydrogen can play a key role in clean energy storage.’ With the launch of the Coradia iLint in 2016 - the world’s first Hydrogen fuel cell train - followed by a first contract for 14 trains signed with Germany’s Lower Saxony region in October 2017, Alstom is ahead of the curve in driving decarbonisation in the mobility sector. Indeed, the innovation is proof that hydrogen fuel cell vehicles are feasible, both technically and commercially.
‘What we need to develop is everything around it: the infrastructure and complete decarbonisation of the hydrogen used.’ The One Planet Summit, co-organised by the French Presidency, the United Nations and the World Bank, marks the two-year anniversary of 2015’s Paris Agreement. Assembling critical public and private stakeholders, the Summit aims to establish the financial alignment and concrete financing solutions that will enable the realisation of the Agreement’s objectives, both in terms of emissions reduction and the protection of populations against the consequences of climate change. [Editorial queries for this story should be sent to mailto:newswire@enpublishing.co.uk newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
  35

 35 : COP26_UK207
The British Ambassador for Honduras, Nick Whittingham, congratulated the Honduran delegation participating at COP26 and encouraged them to achieve a successful outcome. The most important conference of our lifetime is underway in the UK. It is a conference that will likely determine what type of world we pass on to future generations. Success will ensure our children and grandchildren can prosper. Failure could spell disaster for life as we know it. Known as COP-26 for short, the United Nations Climate Conference is one of the last opportunities countries will have to come together and solve mankind’s greatest challenge - a challenge for its very survival. Six years ago the world saw the birth of the Paris Agreement, which was a milestone in global efforts to address climate change. It resulted in a binding agreement, uniting all nations to a common cause. But it was just the beginning. And yesterday the world began to converge on the great city of Glasgow for the COP26 the next and very crucial step on the path to preventing irreversible and catastrophic climate change. Extreme weather can be seen across the world. This summer we have seen devastating floods in central Europe and China, raging wildfires in North America. A year ago, Honduras was hit by two ferocious hurricanes leaving significant economic and human damage. Honduras, as a vulnerable country, has a very important voice and its example can lead others to take important steps. Many climate-vulnerable countries are leading the way in reducing emissions. I congratulate Honduras for submitting early this year its updated NDC. Until 2030, Honduras is committed to carrying out adaptation and mitigation actions in the face of climate change. The country will aim to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 16%, restoring 1.3 million hectares of forests and reducing firewood consumption by 39%. Therefore, I congratulate the Honduran delegation, led by President Juan Orlando Hernandez, who is in Glasgow to join forces on all these issues. Honduras has shown important leadership in the fight against climate change and I encourage the country to work constructively with partners to achieve a successful COP26 . (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com )) Language: ~ENGLISH
  36

 36 : COP23_UK149
US President Donald Trump is not invited to a climate change summit to take place in Paris later this year “for the time being”. An official in French President Emmanuel Macron’s administration told Reuters that the US has “a bit of a special status for that summit.” The US has begun the official withdrawal process from the Paris Agreement, the global accord signed by nearly 200 countries in December 2015 that attempts to curb greenhouse gas emissions and limit global warming rise to 2C. Read more What to expect from the UN’s latest climate talks The withdrawal would only be eligible to take effect on 4 November 2020 per the rules outlined in the agreement, just days before the next presidential election. Climate change might be worse than thought after scientists find major mistake in water temperature readings The day of the announcement in June of this year, Mr Macron and leaders from Germany and Italy banded together to say in a statement that despite Mr Trump being open to changing the Paris Agreement, it could not ” be renegotiated since it is a vital instrument for our planet, societies and economies.” Over a thousand American governors, mayors, and CEOs also said they would stick with the commitments outlined in the accord as well. In the months following, the Trump administration and Environment Protection Agency (EPA) has dismantled key legislation like the Clean Power Plan, which would have reduced US power plants’ carbon emissions by 2030 to a level 32 per cent lower than they were in 2005 and help achieve goals in the accord. US officials will likely still be invited to the 12 December summit but not at the presidential level. Read more Prince Charles accused of ‘conflict of interest’ over climate lobbying Syria signs Paris Agreement leaving US only country to refuse deal Trump’s Scottish golf course ‘faces flooding’ due to climate change The US remains the only country not in the Paris Agreement after previous holdouts Nicaragua and Syria have joined the rest of the world. A delegation of 48 people is attending the United Nations climate change negotiations ( COP23 ) in Bonn, Germany taking place from 6 November to 17 November and will be promoting the use of fossil fuels.
  37

 37 : COP23_UK5
A coalition of US cities, companies and other groups has pledged to stay committed to the Paris agreement on climate change, despite President Donald Trump initiating America’s withdrawal from it. The accord was signed in December 2015 by nearly 200 countries in an effort to curb carbon emissions and limiting global warming to under 2’b0C. Called the We Are Still In coalition, the group set up a pavilion outside of the official United Nations climate change conference ( COP23 ) venue in Bonn, Germany, where countries - including the US - are meeting for the next few weeks to negotiate how the Paris agreement will be implemented. Republicans and Democrats alike make up the We Are Still In coalition, which has more than 1,000 CEOs, mayors and governors in the US. The purpose of the pavilion is to showcase how Americans are still fighting climate change in spite of the Trump administration’s efforts to dismantle Obama-era environmental regulations. The coalition claims it represents more than 130 million Americans and $6.2trn (£34.7trn) of annual economic output. Fiji, which is presiding over this year’s UN talks, welcomed the coalition as a “perfect example” of how the Paris accord aims to widen action beyond national governments.” THE INDEPENDENT
  38

 38 : COP24_UK52
GENEVA, Switzerland – The Portfolio Committee on Environmental Affairs is satisfied with South Africa’s preparations for the 24th Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC COP 24 ) that is scheduled to be held from 2 to 14 December 2018 in Katowice, Poland. Today the committee received an update on the current status of the negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and progress on the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The committee is also pleased that the country has set key priorities stemming from the Paris Agreement where the South African leadership played a critical role. Priorities such as enough mitigation ambition to avoid dangerous human-made climate change, to have enough international financial, technology and capacity building support to make the whole system work and to have effective transparency to build trust and share experiences. These priorities are critical in ensuring that as a country, South Africa plays its part in participating globally in fighting climate change. The Chairperson of the committee remarked that the Katowice climate change negotiations are very critical in the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The Katowice COP 24 is mandated to adopt the Paris Agreement Work Programme, which should set out the mechanism for the full implementation of the historic Paris Agreement and for this reason, it is the committee’s wish that the global climate negotiations succeed for the sake of humanity. The committee has noted the alarming report of the scientific advisory body to the UNFCCC, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) which confirms that it is now evident more than ever before, that climate change is currently the greatest threat to humankind and that dramatic changes by all countries are urgently required in order to limit global warming to 1.5’b0C. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Republic of South Africa: The Parliament. (Distributed by M2 Communications ( HYPERLINK www.m2.com ))
  39

 39 : COP23_UK24
LAST week, a conference known as the Conference of the Parties 23 ( COP23 ) drew to a close in Bonn, Germany. COP23 was the latest UN conference debating how best to deal with the challenges posed by climate change, bringing together thousands of delegates from all around the world. So was this colossal meeting of minds a success from the EU point of view? In a word, no. First, there was the acknowledgment that attempts to turn the EU away from fossil fuels have failed. Germany’s state secretary for the environment confirmed that reforms to the system of carbon credit trading (the basis of the EU’s climate action) were insufficiently robust to incentivise a switching to cleaner fuels and renewables. Nor does the future of the carbon trading system look positive. The EU has taken a step backwards and entered into talks to link its carbon market to those of California and China, meaning that EU power and industrial firms will be able to import carbon credits from both California and China. Prices in the EU system are currently flat, languishing around (EURO)7.4 per credit, which is down around 80 per cent from their highs because of an oversupply of credits in the market. The Chinese carbon market is set for launch by the end of this year, and if the early years of the European system are anything to go by, will be chronically oversupplied. This will mean that Chinese industrials and power companies will be able to export their carbon credits to the EU for cash, creating another extended period of low prices, which will subsidise fossil fuel consumption in the EU and hand China billions in subsidies. Finally, the EU’s Innovation Fund is to help finance Carbon Capture and Storage
(CCS) projects. CCS is often viewed as the have-your-cakeand-eat-it solution for curbing carbon emissions: the CO2 is caught at the plant, and then injected into disused oil wells and similar underground depositories. But employing CCS technology can involve up to 25 per cent more energy to strip out the gas, increasing both pollution and prices. According to the NGO Climate Vision, particulate matter and nitrogen oxide are both predicted to increase due to the additional fuel consumption. Ammonia is expected to increase by more than three times current levels from energy plants, due to the degradation of the solvents in the process of capturing the CO2 . The combination of higher power prices will lend a hand to cheaper competition from overseas, and the increase in particulate matter will pose a significant risk to public health. There is also an additional environmental hazard posed by injecting CO2 into oil wells: if the gas leaks it could acidify the sea and threaten aquaculture. From an EU perspective, COP23 has, If anything, kicked the opportunity to deal with climate change well and truly down the road. Brexit brings the UK the opportunity to go our own way regarding the climate and environment. I look forward to entering this exciting and optimistic phase once we have broken away from the EU, and can negotiate for nationally appropriate CO2 mitigation actions. £3 Diane James is an independent MEP.
  40

 40 : COP22_UK63
November 4, 2016 The Paris Agreement, which has an aim to limit global temperature increase to ‘well-below’ two degrees Celsius, comes into force today, and countries around the world must now start to implement their individual commitments to tackling climate change, known as Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) - an area in which Ricardo Energy & Environment is ideally placed to assist. The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change will meet in Marrakesh, Morocco, next week commencing on 7th November for the 22nd Conference of the Parties ( COP22 ). Ricardo Energy & Environment - which is actively supporting several nations with the implementation of their NDCs - will host a side event at COP22 to provide guidance on the practical steps countries can take to deliver their climate commitments. The session, Driving NDC implementation through sectoral action: lessons learned so far, will be held at 17:00 - 18:30 on Monday 7 November, Oum Errabia - Green Zone, Marrakesh, Morocco. Ricardo’s international experts will be joined by distinguished speakers from the Government of Bangladesh, the Government of Nigeria, GIZ (Deutsche Gesellschaft f’fcr Internationale Zusammenarbeit GmbH), and ICLEI (Local Governments for Sustainability). “The rapid pace at which the Paris Agreement has come into force demonstrates the extent to which governments across the world are committed and driven, in responding to the urgency of climate change,” said Emelia Holdaway, Ricardo Energy & Environment, manager of international climate change policy. “Our side event at COP22 will discuss how early starters are moving forward with NDC implementation and turning their national and sectoral development plans into reality.” Many countries are finding the development of sectoral action plans to be a pragmatic way to drive effective NDC implementation, and empower government ministries and other key stakeholders to take action. The Ricardo Energy & Environment side event will examine the important relationship between sectoral or city actions and the implementation of NDCs. The panel will discuss real world examples of how countries are securing the benefits of sectoral climate action and using this success to embed and mainstream climate action in wider development policy and planning. In the lead-up to the COP22 , Ricardo Energy & Environment and the Climate Knowledge Development Network launched Planning for NDC implementation: a Quick-Start Guide. This new guide, designed at the request of a number of developing countries, provides policymakers at national and local levels with practical guidance on the steps to put their climate commitments into action. To access the Quick-Start Guide and a range of resources on how to balance the complex relationships between economic, societal and environmental requirements and achieve success in NDC implementation, or to find details of the Ricardo side event at COP22 , visit HYPERLINK HYPERLINK COP22 / .
  41
